samples/shields/x_nucleo_53l0a1/README.rst, before:

.. _x-nucleo-53l0a1-sample:

X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 ranging and gesture detection sensor expansion board
#####################################################################

Overview
********
This sample demonstrate the usage of the 4 digits x 7 segments display and the
three VL53L0X ranging sensors on the :ref:`x_nucleo_53l0a1_shield`.

When flashed on a board, 2 modes are available. To switch from one mode to the
other, press the button ``sw0``.

Distance (onboard sensor)
-------------------------

This is the default mode when starting up. In this mode, if the distance to
the center sensor (soldered on the shield) is lower than 1.25m, then the
4x7 segment display shows the distance in cm.

Proximity (onboard + satellites)
--------------------------------

In this mode, the 4x7 segment display shows 3 stacked horizontal bars if there
is something in proximity for each sensor. The left sensor is shown on the
leftmost digit, then the center sensor, then the right sensor.
The proximity threshold is configured in
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_VL53L0X_PROXIMITY_THRESHOLD`

To switch from one mode to another, press the button ``sw0``

Requirements
************

This sample communicates over I2C with the X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 shield
stacked on a board with an Arduino connector. The board's I2C must be
configured for the I2C Arduino connector (both for pin muxing
and devicetree). The board must also have a button with the alias ``sw0``
in its device tree.

References
**********

* `X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 website`_

Building and Running
********************

This sample runs with X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 stacked on any board with a matching
Arduino connector. For this example, we use a :ref:`nucleo_f429zi_board` board.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/shields/x_nucleo_53l0a1
   :board: nucleo_f429zi
   :goals: build
   :compact:

.. _X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 website:
   https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/x-nucleo-53l0a1.html

Commit message:

samples: shields: Update Nucleo shields to new code-sample extension
Update all Nucleo shield samples and references to them so that they
use the new zephyr:code-sample extension.

Signed-off-by: Benjamin Cabé <benjamin@zephyrproject.org>

samples/shields/x_nucleo_53l0a1/README.rst, after:

.. zephyr:code-sample:: x-nucleo-53l0a1
   :name: X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 shield
   :relevant-api: sensor_interface gpio_interface

   Interact with the 7-segment display and VL53L0X ranging sensor of an X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 shield.

Overview
********
This sample demonstrate the usage of the 4 digits x 7 segments display and the
three VL53L0X ranging sensors on the :ref:`x_nucleo_53l0a1_shield`.

When flashed on a board, 2 modes are available. To switch from one mode to the
other, press the button ``sw0``.

Distance (onboard sensor)
-------------------------

This is the default mode when starting up. In this mode, if the distance to
the center sensor (soldered on the shield) is lower than 1.25m, then the
4x7 segment display shows the distance in cm.

Proximity (onboard + satellites)
--------------------------------

In this mode, the 4x7 segment display shows 3 stacked horizontal bars if there
is something in proximity for each sensor. The left sensor is shown on the
leftmost digit, then the center sensor, then the right sensor.
The proximity threshold is configured in
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_VL53L0X_PROXIMITY_THRESHOLD`

To switch from one mode to another, press the button ``sw0``

Requirements
************

This sample communicates over I2C with the X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 shield
stacked on a board with an Arduino connector. The board's I2C must be
configured for the I2C Arduino connector (both for pin muxing
and devicetree). The board must also have a button with the alias ``sw0``
in its device tree.

References
**********

* `X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 website`_

Building and Running
********************

This sample runs with X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 stacked on any board with a matching
Arduino connector. For this example, we use a :ref:`nucleo_f429zi_board` board.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/shields/x_nucleo_53l0a1
   :board: nucleo_f429zi
   :goals: build
   :compact:

.. _X-NUCLEO-53L0A1 website:
   https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/x-nucleo-53l0a1.html
