samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service/README.rst, before:

.. zephyr:code-sample:: rpmsg-service
   :name: RPMsg service
   :relevant-api: rpmsg_service_api

   Send messages between cores using RPMsg service.

Overview
********

RPMsg Service is an abstraction created over OpenAMP that makes initialization
and endpoints creation process easier.
This application demonstrates how to use RPMsg Service in Zephyr. It is designed
to demonstrate how to integrate RPMsg Service with Zephyr both from a build
perspective and code.

Building the application for nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp
*****************************************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service
   :board: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp
   :goals: debug

Building the application for mps2_an521
***************************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service
   :board: mps2_an521
   :goals: debug

Building the application for v2m_musca_b1
*****************************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service
   :board: v2m_musca_b1
   :goals: debug

Open a serial terminal (minicom, putty, etc.) and connect the board with the
following settings:

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Reset the board and the following message will appear on the corresponding
serial port, one is master another is remote:

.. code-block:: console

   **** Booting Zephyr OS build zephyr-v1.14.0-2064-g888fc98fddaa ****
   Starting application thread!

   RPMsg Service [master] demo started
   Master core received a message: 1
   Master core received a message: 3
   Master core received a message: 5
   ...
   Master core received a message: 99
   RPMsg Service demo ended.


.. code-block:: console

   **** Booting Zephyr OS build zephyr-v1.14.0-2064-g888fc98fddaa ****
   Starting application thread!

   RPMsg Service [remote] demo started
   Remote core received a message: 0
   Remote core received a message: 2
   Remote core received a message: 4
   ...
   Remote core received a message: 98
   RPMsg Service demo ended.

Building the application for bl5340_dvk_cpuapp
**********************************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service
   :board: bl5340_dvk_cpuapp
   :goals: debug

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service
   :board: bl5340_dvk_cpunet
   :goals: debug

Open a serial terminal (for example Minicom or PuTTY) and connect to the board
with the following settings on both serial ports:

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

When you reset the development kit after having flashed both the application
and network core images, the following messages (one for master and one for
remote) will appear on the corresponding serial ports:

.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v2.7.0-rc1-103-ge19875c88916  ***
   Starting application thread!

   RPMsg Service [master] demo started
   Master core received a message: 1
   Master core received a message: 3
   Master core received a message: 5
   ...
   Master core received a message: 99
   RPMsg Service demo ended.


.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v2.7.0-rc1-103-ge19875c88916  ***
   Starting application thread!

   RPMsg Service [remote] demo started
   Remote core received a message: 0
   Remote core received a message: 2
   Remote core received a message: 4
   ...
   Remote core received a message: 98
   RPMsg Service demo ended.

Commit message:

samples: subsys: ipc: switch rpmsg to sysbuild
rpmsg_service only loads the main application on the target. Switch to
sysbuild which is know to work as expected with the openamp sample.

Signed-off-by: Wilfried Chauveau <wilfried.chauveau@arm.com>

samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service/README.rst, after:

.. zephyr:code-sample:: rpmsg-service
   :name: RPMsg service
   :relevant-api: rpmsg_service_api

   Send messages between cores using RPMsg service.

Overview
********

RPMsg Service is an abstraction created over OpenAMP that makes initialization
and endpoints creation process easier.
This application demonstrates how to use RPMsg Service in Zephyr. It is designed
to demonstrate how to integrate RPMsg Service with Zephyr both from a build
perspective and code. Note that the remote and primary image core images can be
flashed independently, but sysbuild must be used in order to flash them in one
step.

Building the application for nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp
*****************************************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service
   :board: nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp
   :goals: debug

Building the application for mps2_an521
***************************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service
   :board: mps2_an521
   :goals: debug

Building the application for v2m_musca_b1
*****************************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service
   :board: v2m_musca_b1
   :goals: debug

Open a serial terminal (minicom, putty, etc.) and connect the board with the
following settings:

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Reset the board and the following message will appear on the corresponding
serial port, one is master another is remote:

.. code-block:: console

   **** Booting Zephyr OS build zephyr-v1.14.0-2064-g888fc98fddaa ****
   Starting application thread!

   RPMsg Service [master] demo started
   Master core received a message: 1
   Master core received a message: 3
   Master core received a message: 5
   ...
   Master core received a message: 99
   RPMsg Service demo ended.


.. code-block:: console

   **** Booting Zephyr OS build zephyr-v1.14.0-2064-g888fc98fddaa ****
   Starting application thread!

   RPMsg Service [remote] demo started
   Remote core received a message: 0
   Remote core received a message: 2
   Remote core received a message: 4
   ...
   Remote core received a message: 98
   RPMsg Service demo ended.

Building the application for bl5340_dvk_cpuapp
**********************************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service
   :board: bl5340_dvk_cpuapp
   :goals: debug

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/rpmsg_service
   :board: bl5340_dvk_cpunet
   :goals: debug

Open a serial terminal (for example Minicom or PuTTY) and connect to the board
with the following settings on both serial ports:

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

When you reset the development kit after having flashed both the application
and network core images, the following messages (one for master and one for
remote) will appear on the corresponding serial ports:

.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v2.7.0-rc1-103-ge19875c88916  ***
   Starting application thread!

   RPMsg Service [master] demo started
   Master core received a message: 1
   Master core received a message: 3
   Master core received a message: 5
   ...
   Master core received a message: 99
   RPMsg Service demo ended.


.. code-block:: console

   *** Booting Zephyr OS build v2.7.0-rc1-103-ge19875c88916  ***
   Starting application thread!

   RPMsg Service [remote] demo started
   Remote core received a message: 0
   Remote core received a message: 2
   Remote core received a message: 4
   ...
   Remote core received a message: 98
   RPMsg Service demo ended.
