boards/nxp/lpcxpresso55s69/doc/index.rst, before:

.. _lpcxpresso55s69:

NXP LPCXPRESSO55S69
###################

Overview
********

The LPCXpresso55S69 development board provides the ideal platform for evaluation
of and development with the LPC55S6x MCU based on the Arm® Cortex®-M33
architecture. The board includes a high performance onboard debug probe, audio
subsystem, and accelerometer, with several options for adding off-the-shelf
add-on boards for networking, sensors, displays, and other interfaces.

.. image:: lpcxpresso55s69.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: LPCXPRESSO55S69

Hardware
********

- LPC55S69 dual core Arm Cortex-M33 microcontroller running at up to 100 MHz
- Onboard, high-speed USB, Link2 debug probe with CMSIS-DAP and SEGGER J-Link
  protocol options
- UART and SPI port bridging from LPC55S69 target to USB via the onboard debug
  probe
- Hardware support for external debug probe
- 3 x user LEDs, plus Reset, ISP (3) and user buttons
- Micro SD card slot (4-bit SDIO)
- NXP MMA8652FCR1 accelerometer
- Stereo audio codec with line in/out
- High and full speed USB ports with micro A/B connector for host or device
  functionality
- MikroEletronika Click expansion option
- LPCXpresso-V3 expansion option compatible with Arduino UNO
- PMod compatible expansion / host connector

For more information about the LPC55S69 SoC and LPCXPRESSO55S69 board, see:

- `LPC55S69 SoC Website`_
- `LPC55S69 Datasheet`_
- `LPC55S69 Reference Manual`_
- `LPCXPRESSO55S69 Website`_
- `LPCXPRESSO55S69 User Guide`_
- `LPCXPRESSO55S69 Schematics`_
- `LPCXPRESSO55S69 Debug Firmware`_

Supported Features
==================

NXP considers the LPCXpresso55S69 as the superset board for the LPC55xx
series of MCUs.  This board is a focus for NXP's Full Platform Support for
Zephyr, to better enable the entire LPC55xx series.  NXP prioritizes enabling
this board with new support for Zephyr features.  The lpcxpresso55s69 board
configuration supports the following hardware features:

+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                    |
+===========+============+=====================================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vector interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SYSTICK   | on-chip    | systick                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| IOCON     | on-chip    | pinmux                              |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2C       | on-chip    | i2c                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SPI       | on-chip    | spi                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USART     | on-chip    | serial port-polling;                |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| WWDT      | on-chip    | windowed watchdog timer             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| TrustZone | on-chip    | Trusted Firmware-M                  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ADC       | on-chip    | adc                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| CLOCK     | on-chip    | clock_control                       |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| MAILBOX   | on-chip    | ipm                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| HWINFO    | on-chip    | Unique device serial number         |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB HS    | on-chip    | USB High Speed device               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB FS    | on-chip    | USB Full Speed device               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| COUNTER   | on-chip    | counter                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2S       | on-chip    | i2s                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| PWM       | on-chip    | pwm                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| RNG       | on-chip    | entropy;                            |
|           |            | random                              |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| IAP       | on-chip    | flash programming                   |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SDIF      | on-chip    | sdhc                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| DMA       | on-chip    | dma (on CPU0)                       |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+

Targets available
==================

The default configuration file
``boards/arm/lpcxpresso55s69/lpcxpresso55s69_lpc55s69_cpu0_defconfig``
only enables the first core.
CPU0 is the only target that can run standalone.

- *lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu0* secure (S) address space for CPU0
- *lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu0/ns* non-secure (NS) address space for CPU0
- *lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu1* CPU1 target, no security extensions

NS target for CPU0 does not work correctly without a secure image to configure
the system, then hand execution over to the NS environment. To enable a secure
image, run any of the ``tfm_integration`` samples. When using the NS target
``CONFIG_BUILD_WITH_TFM`` is always enabled to ensure that a valid S image is
included during the build process.

CPU1 does not work without CPU0 enabling it.
To enable it, run one of the following samples in ``subsys\ipc``:
- ``ipm_mcux``
- ``openamp``

Connections and IOs
===================

The LPC55S69 SoC has IOCON registers, which can be used to configure the
functionality of a pin.

+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| Name    | Function        | Usage                      |
+=========+=================+============================+
| PIO0_26 | SPI             | SPI MOSI                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_27 | USART           | USART TX                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_29 | USART           | USART RX                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_30 | USART           | USART TX                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_1  | SPI             | SPI SSEL                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_2  | SPI             | SPI SCK                    |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_3  | SPI             | SPI MISO                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_4  | GPIO            | RED LED                    |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_6  | GPIO            | BLUE_LED                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_7  | GPIO            | GREEN LED                  |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_20 | I2C             | I2C SCL                    |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_21 | I2C             | I2C SDA                    |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_24 | USART           | USART RX                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_20 | I2S             | I2S DATAOUT                |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_19 | I2S             | I2S TX WS                  |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_21 | I2S             | I2S TX SCK                 |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_13 | I2S             | I2S DATAIN                 |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_15 | SCT0_OUT2       | PWM                        |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_24 | SD0_D0          | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_25 | SD0_D1          | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_31 | SD0_D2          | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_7  | SD0_CLK         | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_8  | SD0_CMD         | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_9  | SD0_POW_EN      | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_0  | SD0_D3          | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+

Memory mappings
===============

There are multiple memory configurations, they all start from the
MCUboot partitioning which looks like the table below

+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| Name     | Address[Size]    | Comment                         |
+==========+==================+=================================+
| boot     | 0x00000000[32K]  | Bootloader                      |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| slot0    | 0x00008000[160k] | Image that runs after boot      |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| slot0_ns | 0x00030000[96k]  | Second image, core 1 or NS      |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| slot1    | 0x00048000[160k] | Updates slot0 image             |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| slot1_ns | 0x00070000[96k]  | Updates slot0_ns image          |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| storage  | 0x00088000[50k]  | File system, persistent storage |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+

See below examples of how this partitioning is used

Trusted Execution
*****************

+-----------+------------------+--------------------+
| Memory    | Address[Size]    | Comment            |
+===========+==================+====================+
| MCUboot   | 0x00000000[32K]  | Secure bootloader  |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+
| TFM_S     | 0x00008000[160k] | Secure image       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+
| Zephyr_NS | 0x00030000[96k]  | Non-Secure image   |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+
| storage   | 0x00088000[50k]  | Persistent storage |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+

+----------------+------------------+-------------------+
| RAM            | Address[Size]    | Comment           |
+================+==================+===================+
| secure_ram     | 0x20000000[136k] | Secure memory     |
+----------------+------------------+-------------------+
| non_secure_ram | 0x20022000[136k] | Non-Secure memory |
+----------------+------------------+-------------------+

Dual Core samples
*****************

+--------+------------------+----------------------------+
| Memory | Address[Size]    | Comment                    |
+========+==================+============================+
| CPU0   | 0x00000000[630K] | CPU0, can access all flash |
+--------+------------------+----------------------------+
| CPU1   | 0x00030000[96k]  | CPU1, has no MPU           |
+--------+------------------+----------------------------+

+-------+------------------+-----------------------+
| RAM   | Address[Size]    | Comment               |
+=======+==================+=======================+
| sram0 | 0x20000000[64k]  | CPU0 memory           |
+-------+------------------+-----------------------+
| sram3 | 0x20030000[64k]  | CPU1 memory           |
+-------+------------------+-----------------------+
| sram4 | 0x20040000[16k]  | Mailbox/shared memory |
+-------+------------------+-----------------------+

System Clock
============

The LPC55S69 SoC is configured to use PLL1 clocked from the external 16MHz
crystal, running at 144MHz as a source for the system clock. When the flash
controller is enabled, the core clock will be reduced to 96MHz. The application
may reconfigure clocks after initialization, provided that the core clock is
always set to 96MHz when flash programming operations are performed.

Serial Port
===========

The LPC55S69 SoC has 8 FLEXCOMM interfaces for serial communication.  One is
configured as USART for the console and the remaining are not used.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Build and flash applications as usual (see :ref:`build_an_application` and
:ref:`application_run` for more details).

Configuring a Debug Probe
=========================

A debug probe is used for both flashing and debugging the board. This board is
configured by default to use the LPC-Link2 CMSIS-DAP Onboard Debug Probe,
however the :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools` does not yet support this probe so you
must reconfigure the board for one of the following debug probes instead.

:ref:`lpclink2-jlink-onboard-debug-probe`
-----------------------------------------

Install the :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search
path.

Follow the instructions in :ref:`lpclink2-jlink-onboard-debug-probe` to program
the J-Link firmware. Please make sure you have the latest firmware for this
board.

:ref:`lpclink2-cmsis-onboard-debug-probe`
-----------------------------------------

        1. Install the :ref:`linkserver-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search path.
        2. To update the debug firmware, please follow the instructions on `LPCXPRESSO55S69 Debug Firmware`

:ref:`opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe`
------------------------------------------

PyOCD support for this board is ongoing and not yet available.
To use DAPLink's flash memory programming on this board, follow the instructions
for `updating LPCXpresso firmware`_.

Configuring a Console
=====================

Connect a USB cable from your PC to P6, and use the serial terminal of your choice
(minicom, putty, etc.) with the following settings:

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Flashing
========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application. This example uses the
:ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` as default.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu0
   :goals: flash

Open a serial terminal, reset the board (press the RESET button), and you should
see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS v1.14.0 *****
   Hello World! lpcxpresso55s69_cpu0

Building and flashing secure/non-secure with Arm |reg| TrustZone |reg|
----------------------------------------------------------------------
The TF-M integration samples can be run using the ``lpcxpresso55s69_ns`` target.
To run we need to manually flash the resulting image (``tfm_merged.hex``) with
a J-Link as follows (reset and erase are for recovering a locked core):

   .. code-block:: console

      JLinkExe -device lpc55s69 -if swd -speed 2000 -autoconnect 1
      J-Link>r
      J-Link>erase
      J-Link>loadfile build/zephyr/tfm_merged.hex

We need to reset the board manually after flashing the image to run this code.

Building a dual-core image
--------------------------
The dual-core samples are run using ``lpcxpresso55s69_cpu0`` target,
``lpcxpresso55s69_cpu1`` will be automatically built and merged in a single
image when ``SECOND_CORE_MCUX`` is selected.
To run we need to manually flash the resulting image (``multicore.bin``) with a
J-Link as follows (reset and erase are for recovering a locked core):

   .. code-block:: console

      JLinkExe -device lpc55s69 -if swd -speed 2000 -autoconnect 1
      J-Link>r
      J-Link>erase
      J-Link>loadfile build/multicore.bin

We need to reset the board manually after flashing the image to run this code.

Debugging
=========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application. This example uses the
:ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` as default.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: lpcxpresso55s69_cpu0
   :goals: debug

Open a serial terminal, step through the application in your debugger, and you
should see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS zephyr-v1.14.0 *****
   Hello World! lpcxpresso55s69_cpu0

.. _LPC55S69 SoC Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/lpc-cortex-m-mcus/lpc5500-cortex-m33/high-efficiency-arm-cortex-m33-based-microcontroller-family:LPC55S6x

.. _LPC55S69 Datasheet:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/nxp/data-sheets/LPC55S6x_DS.pdf

.. _LPC55S69 Reference Manual:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=UM11126

.. _LPCXPRESSO55S69 Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/lpc-cortex-m-mcus/lpc5500-cortex-m33/lpcxpresso55s69-development-board:LPC55S69-EVK

.. _LPCXPRESSO55S69 User Guide:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=UM11158

.. _LPCXPRESSO55S69 Debug Firmware:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/application-note/AN13206.pdf

.. _LPCXPRESSO55S69 Schematics:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=LPC55S69-SCH

.. _updating LPCXpresso firmware:
   https://os.mbed.com/teams/NXP/wiki/Updating-LPCXpresso-firmware

Commit message:

boards: update lpcxpresso55s69_cpu0 name in build commands
Update lpcxpresso55s69_cpu0 (and ns target) names in build commands in
the board documentation. Also, correct the documentation for dual core
images on this part, as it was out of date.

Signed-off-by: Daniel DeGrasse <daniel.degrasse@nxp.com>

boards/nxp/lpcxpresso55s69/doc/index.rst, after:

.. _lpcxpresso55s69:

NXP LPCXPRESSO55S69
###################

Overview
********

The LPCXpresso55S69 development board provides the ideal platform for evaluation
of and development with the LPC55S6x MCU based on the Arm® Cortex®-M33
architecture. The board includes a high performance onboard debug probe, audio
subsystem, and accelerometer, with several options for adding off-the-shelf
add-on boards for networking, sensors, displays, and other interfaces.

.. image:: lpcxpresso55s69.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: LPCXPRESSO55S69

Hardware
********

- LPC55S69 dual core Arm Cortex-M33 microcontroller running at up to 100 MHz
- Onboard, high-speed USB, Link2 debug probe with CMSIS-DAP and SEGGER J-Link
  protocol options
- UART and SPI port bridging from LPC55S69 target to USB via the onboard debug
  probe
- Hardware support for external debug probe
- 3 x user LEDs, plus Reset, ISP (3) and user buttons
- Micro SD card slot (4-bit SDIO)
- NXP MMA8652FCR1 accelerometer
- Stereo audio codec with line in/out
- High and full speed USB ports with micro A/B connector for host or device
  functionality
- MikroEletronika Click expansion option
- LPCXpresso-V3 expansion option compatible with Arduino UNO
- PMod compatible expansion / host connector

For more information about the LPC55S69 SoC and LPCXPRESSO55S69 board, see:

- `LPC55S69 SoC Website`_
- `LPC55S69 Datasheet`_
- `LPC55S69 Reference Manual`_
- `LPCXPRESSO55S69 Website`_
- `LPCXPRESSO55S69 User Guide`_
- `LPCXPRESSO55S69 Schematics`_
- `LPCXPRESSO55S69 Debug Firmware`_

Supported Features
==================

NXP considers the LPCXpresso55S69 as the superset board for the LPC55xx
series of MCUs.  This board is a focus for NXP's Full Platform Support for
Zephyr, to better enable the entire LPC55xx series.  NXP prioritizes enabling
this board with new support for Zephyr features.  The lpcxpresso55s69 board
configuration supports the following hardware features:

+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                    |
+===========+============+=====================================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vector interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SYSTICK   | on-chip    | systick                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| IOCON     | on-chip    | pinmux                              |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2C       | on-chip    | i2c                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SPI       | on-chip    | spi                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USART     | on-chip    | serial port-polling;                |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| WWDT      | on-chip    | windowed watchdog timer             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| TrustZone | on-chip    | Trusted Firmware-M                  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ADC       | on-chip    | adc                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| CLOCK     | on-chip    | clock_control                       |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| MAILBOX   | on-chip    | ipm                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| HWINFO    | on-chip    | Unique device serial number         |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB HS    | on-chip    | USB High Speed device               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB FS    | on-chip    | USB Full Speed device               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| COUNTER   | on-chip    | counter                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2S       | on-chip    | i2s                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| PWM       | on-chip    | pwm                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| RNG       | on-chip    | entropy;                            |
|           |            | random                              |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| IAP       | on-chip    | flash programming                   |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SDIF      | on-chip    | sdhc                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| DMA       | on-chip    | dma (on CPU0)                       |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+

Targets available
==================

The default configuration file
``boards/arm/lpcxpresso55s69/lpcxpresso55s69_lpc55s69_cpu0_defconfig``
only enables the first core.
CPU0 is the only target that can run standalone.

- *lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu0* secure (S) address space for CPU0
- *lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu0/ns* non-secure (NS) address space for CPU0
- *lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu1* CPU1 target, no security extensions

NS target for CPU0 does not work correctly without a secure image to configure
the system, then hand execution over to the NS environment. To enable a secure
image, run any of the ``tfm_integration`` samples. When using the NS target
``CONFIG_BUILD_WITH_TFM`` is always enabled to ensure that a valid S image is
included during the build process.

CPU1 does not work without CPU0 enabling it.
To enable it, run one of the following samples in ``subsys\ipc``:
- ``ipm_mcux``
- ``openamp``

Connections and IOs
===================

The LPC55S69 SoC has IOCON registers, which can be used to configure the
functionality of a pin.

+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| Name    | Function        | Usage                      |
+=========+=================+============================+
| PIO0_26 | SPI             | SPI MOSI                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_27 | USART           | USART TX                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_29 | USART           | USART RX                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_30 | USART           | USART TX                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_1  | SPI             | SPI SSEL                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_2  | SPI             | SPI SCK                    |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_3  | SPI             | SPI MISO                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_4  | GPIO            | RED LED                    |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_6  | GPIO            | BLUE_LED                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_7  | GPIO            | GREEN LED                  |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_20 | I2C             | I2C SCL                    |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_21 | I2C             | I2C SDA                    |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_24 | USART           | USART RX                   |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_20 | I2S             | I2S DATAOUT                |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_19 | I2S             | I2S TX WS                  |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_21 | I2S             | I2S TX SCK                 |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_13 | I2S             | I2S DATAIN                 |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_15 | SCT0_OUT2       | PWM                        |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_24 | SD0_D0          | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_25 | SD0_D1          | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_31 | SD0_D2          | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_7  | SD0_CLK         | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_8  | SD0_CMD         | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO0_9  | SD0_POW_EN      | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+
| PIO1_0  | SD0_D3          | SDHC                       |
+---------+-----------------+----------------------------+

Memory mappings
===============

There are multiple memory configurations, they all start from the
MCUboot partitioning which looks like the table below

+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| Name     | Address[Size]    | Comment                         |
+==========+==================+=================================+
| boot     | 0x00000000[32K]  | Bootloader                      |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| slot0    | 0x00008000[160k] | Image that runs after boot      |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| slot0_ns | 0x00030000[96k]  | Second image, core 1 or NS      |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| slot1    | 0x00048000[160k] | Updates slot0 image             |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| slot1_ns | 0x00070000[96k]  | Updates slot0_ns image          |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+
| storage  | 0x00088000[50k]  | File system, persistent storage |
+----------+------------------+---------------------------------+

See below examples of how this partitioning is used

Trusted Execution
*****************

+-----------+------------------+--------------------+
| Memory    | Address[Size]    | Comment            |
+===========+==================+====================+
| MCUboot   | 0x00000000[32K]  | Secure bootloader  |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+
| TFM_S     | 0x00008000[160k] | Secure image       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+
| Zephyr_NS | 0x00030000[96k]  | Non-Secure image   |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+
| storage   | 0x00088000[50k]  | Persistent storage |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+

+----------------+------------------+-------------------+
| RAM            | Address[Size]    | Comment           |
+================+==================+===================+
| secure_ram     | 0x20000000[136k] | Secure memory     |
+----------------+------------------+-------------------+
| non_secure_ram | 0x20022000[136k] | Non-Secure memory |
+----------------+------------------+-------------------+

Dual Core samples
*****************

+--------+------------------+----------------------------+
| Memory | Address[Size]    | Comment                    |
+========+==================+============================+
| CPU0   | 0x00000000[630K] | CPU0, can access all flash |
+--------+------------------+----------------------------+
| CPU1   | 0x00030000[96k]  | CPU1, has no MPU           |
+--------+------------------+----------------------------+

+-------+------------------+-----------------------+
| RAM   | Address[Size]    | Comment               |
+=======+==================+=======================+
| sram0 | 0x20000000[64k]  | CPU0 memory           |
+-------+------------------+-----------------------+
| sram3 | 0x20030000[64k]  | CPU1 memory           |
+-------+------------------+-----------------------+
| sram4 | 0x20040000[16k]  | Mailbox/shared memory |
+-------+------------------+-----------------------+

System Clock
============

The LPC55S69 SoC is configured to use PLL1 clocked from the external 16MHz
crystal, running at 144MHz as a source for the system clock. When the flash
controller is enabled, the core clock will be reduced to 96MHz. The application
may reconfigure clocks after initialization, provided that the core clock is
always set to 96MHz when flash programming operations are performed.

Serial Port
===========

The LPC55S69 SoC has 8 FLEXCOMM interfaces for serial communication.  One is
configured as USART for the console and the remaining are not used.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Build and flash applications as usual (see :ref:`build_an_application` and
:ref:`application_run` for more details).

Configuring a Debug Probe
=========================

A debug probe is used for both flashing and debugging the board. This board is
configured by default to use the LPC-Link2 CMSIS-DAP Onboard Debug Probe,
however the :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools` does not yet support this probe so you
must reconfigure the board for one of the following debug probes instead.

:ref:`lpclink2-jlink-onboard-debug-probe`
-----------------------------------------

Install the :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search
path.

Follow the instructions in :ref:`lpclink2-jlink-onboard-debug-probe` to program
the J-Link firmware. Please make sure you have the latest firmware for this
board.

:ref:`lpclink2-cmsis-onboard-debug-probe`
-----------------------------------------

        1. Install the :ref:`linkserver-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search path.
        2. To update the debug firmware, please follow the instructions on `LPCXPRESSO55S69 Debug Firmware`

:ref:`opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe`
------------------------------------------

PyOCD support for this board is ongoing and not yet available.
To use DAPLink's flash memory programming on this board, follow the instructions
for `updating LPCXpresso firmware`_.

Configuring a Console
=====================

Connect a USB cable from your PC to P6, and use the serial terminal of your choice
(minicom, putty, etc.) with the following settings:

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Flashing
========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application. This example uses the
:ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` as default.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu0
   :goals: flash

Open a serial terminal, reset the board (press the RESET button), and you should
see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS v1.14.0 *****
   Hello World! lpcxpresso55s69

Building and flashing secure/non-secure with Arm |reg| TrustZone |reg|
----------------------------------------------------------------------
The TF-M integration samples can be run using the
``lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu0/ns`` target. To run we need to manually flash
the resulting image (``tfm_merged.hex``) with a J-Link as follows
(reset and erase are for recovering a locked core):

   .. code-block:: console

      JLinkExe -device lpc55s69 -if swd -speed 2000 -autoconnect 1
      J-Link>r
      J-Link>erase
      J-Link>loadfile build/zephyr/tfm_merged.hex

We need to reset the board manually after flashing the image to run this code.

Building a dual-core image
--------------------------
The dual-core samples are run using ``lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu0`` target.
Images built for ``lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu1`` will be loaded from flash
and executed on the second core when ``SECOND_CORE_MCUX`` is selected. For
an example of building for both cores with sysbuild, see
``samples/subsys/ipc/openamp/``

Debugging
=========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application. This example uses the
:ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` as default.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: lpcxpresso55s69/lpc55s69/cpu0
   :goals: debug

Open a serial terminal, step through the application in your debugger, and you
should see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS zephyr-v1.14.0 *****
   Hello World! lpcxpresso55s69

.. _LPC55S69 SoC Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/lpc-cortex-m-mcus/lpc5500-cortex-m33/high-efficiency-arm-cortex-m33-based-microcontroller-family:LPC55S6x

.. _LPC55S69 Datasheet:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/nxp/data-sheets/LPC55S6x_DS.pdf

.. _LPC55S69 Reference Manual:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=UM11126

.. _LPCXPRESSO55S69 Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/lpc-cortex-m-mcus/lpc5500-cortex-m33/lpcxpresso55s69-development-board:LPC55S69-EVK

.. _LPCXPRESSO55S69 User Guide:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=UM11158

.. _LPCXPRESSO55S69 Debug Firmware:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/application-note/AN13206.pdf

.. _LPCXPRESSO55S69 Schematics:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=LPC55S69-SCH

.. _updating LPCXpresso firmware:
   https://os.mbed.com/teams/NXP/wiki/Updating-LPCXpresso-firmware
