doc/develop/flash_debug/probes.rst, before:

.. _debug-probes:

Debug Probes
############

A *debug probe* is special hardware which allows you to control execution of a
Zephyr application running on a separate board. Debug probes usually allow
reading and writing registers and memory, and support breakpoint debugging of
the Zephyr application on your host workstation using tools like GDB. They may
also support other debug software and more advanced features such as
:ref:`tracing program execution <tracing>`. For details on the related host
software supported by Zephyr, see :ref:`flash-debug-host-tools`.

Debug probes are usually connected to your host workstation via USB; they
are sometimes also accessible via an IP network or other means. They usually
connect to the device running Zephyr using the JTAG or SWD protocols. Debug
probes are either separate hardware devices or circuitry integrated into the same
board which runs Zephyr.

Many supported boards in Zephyr include a second microcontroller that serves as
an onboard debug probe, usb-to-serial adapter, and sometimes a drag-and-drop
flash programmer. This eliminates the need to purchase an external debug probe
and provides a variety of debug host tool options.

Several hardware vendors have their own branded onboard debug probe
implementations: NXP LPC boards have `LPC-Link2 <#lpclink2-jlink-onboard-debug-probe>`_,
NXP Kinetis (former Freescale) boards have `OpenSDA <#opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe>`_,
and ST boards have `ST-LINK <#stlink-v21-onboard-debug-probe>`_. Each onboard debug probe
microcontroller can support one or more types of firmware that communicate with
their respective debug host tools. For example, an OpenSDA microcontroller can
be programmed with DAPLink firmware to communicate with pyOCD or OpenOCD debug
host tools, or with J-Link firmware to communicate with J-Link debug host
tools.


+---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|| *Debug Probes & Host Tools*          |                          Host Tools                           |
+| *Compatibility Chart*                +--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|                                       |  **J-Link Debug**  |    **OpenOCD**     |      **pyOCD**      |
+----------------+----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|                | **LPC-Link2 J-Link** |           ✓        |                    |                     |
|                +----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|                | **OpenSDA DAPLink**  |                    |          ✓         |          ✓          |
|                +----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|  Debug Probes  | **OpenSDA J-Link**   |           ✓        |                    |                     |
|                +----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|                | **J-Link External**  |           ✓        |          ✓         |                     |
|                +----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|                | **ST-LINK/V2-1**     |           ✓        |          ✓         | *some STM32 boards* |
+----------------+----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+


Some supported boards in Zephyr do not include an onboard debug probe and
therefore require an external debug probe. In addition, boards that do include
an onboard debug probe often also have an SWD or JTAG header to enable the use
of an external debug probe instead. One reason this may be useful is that the
onboard debug probe may have limitations, such as lack of support for advanced
debuggers or high-speed tracing. You may need to adjust jumpers to prevent the
onboard debug probe from interfering with the external debug probe.

.. _lpclink2-jlink-onboard-debug-probe:

LPC-Link2 J-Link Onboard Debug Probe
************************************

The LPC-Link2 J-Link is an onboard debug probe and usb-to-serial adapter
supported on many NXP LPC and i.MX RT development boards.

This debug probe is compatible with the following debug host tools:

- :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools`

This probe is realized by programming the LPC-Link2 microcontroller with J-Link
LPC-Link2 firmware. Download and install `LPCScrypt`_ to get the firmware and
programming scripts.

.. note:: Verify the firmware supports your board by visiting `Firmware for LPCXpresso`_

1. Put the LPC-Link2 microcontroller into DFU boot mode by attaching the DFU
   jumper, then powering up the board.

#. Run the ``program_JLINK`` script.

#. Remove the DFU jumper and power cycle the board.

.. _opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe:

OpenSDA DAPLink Onboard Debug Probe
***********************************

The OpenSDA DAPLink is an onboard debug probe and usb-to-serial adapter
supported on many NXP Kinetis and i.MX RT development boards. It also includes
drag-and-drop flash programming support.

This debug probe is compatible with the following debug host tools:

- :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools`
- :ref:`openocd-debug-host-tools`

This probe is realized by programming the OpenSDA microcontroller with DAPLink
OpenSDA firmware. NXP provides `OpenSDA DAPLink Board-Specific Firmwares`_.

Install the debug host tools before you program the firmware.

As with all OpenSDA debug probes, the steps for programming the firmware are:

1. Put the OpenSDA microcontroller into bootloader mode by holding the reset
   button while you power on the board. Note that "bootloader mode" in this
   context applies to the OpenSDA microcontroller itself, not the target
   microcontroller of your Zephyr application.

#. After you power on the board, release the reset button. A USB mass storage
   device called **BOOTLOADER** or **MAINTENANCE** will enumerate.

#. Copy the OpenSDA firmware binary to the USB mass storage device.

#. Power cycle the board, this time without holding the reset button. You
   should see three USB devices enumerate: a CDC device (serial port), a HID
   device (debug port), and a mass storage device (drag-and-drop flash
   programming).

.. _opensda-jlink-onboard-debug-probe:

OpenSDA J-Link Onboard Debug Probe
**********************************

The OpenSDA J-Link is an onboard debug probe and usb-to-serial adapter
supported on many NXP Kinetis and i.MX RT development boards.

This debug probe is compatible with the following debug host tools:

- :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools`

This probe is realized by programming the OpenSDA microcontroller with J-Link
OpenSDA firmware. Segger provides `OpenSDA J-Link Generic Firmwares`_ and
`OpenSDA J-Link Board-Specific Firmwares`_, where the latter is generally
recommended when available. Board-specific firmwares are required for i.MX RT
boards to support their external flash memories, whereas generic firmwares are
compatible with all Kinetis boards.

Install the debug host tools before you program the firmware.

As with all OpenSDA debug probes, the steps for programming the firmware are:

1. Put the OpenSDA microcontroller into bootloader mode by holding the reset
   button while you power on the board. Note that "bootloader mode" in this
   context applies to the OpenSDA microcontroller itself, not the target
   microcontroller of your Zephyr application.

#. After you power on the board, release the reset button. A USB mass storage
   device called **BOOTLOADER** or **MAINTENANCE** will enumerate.

#. Copy the OpenSDA firmware binary to the USB mass storage device.

#. Power cycle the board, this time without holding the reset button. You
   should see two USB devices enumerate: a CDC device (serial port) and a
   vendor-specific device (debug port).

.. _jlink-external-debug-probe:

J-Link External Debug Probe
***************************

`Segger J-Link`_ is a family of external debug probes, including J-Link EDU,
J-Link PLUS, J-Link ULTRA+, and J-Link PRO, that support a large number of
devices from different hardware architectures and vendors.

This debug probe is compatible with the following debug host tools:

- :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools`
- :ref:`openocd-debug-host-tools`

Install the debug host tools before you program the firmware.

.. _stlink-v21-onboard-debug-probe:

ST-LINK/V2-1 Onboard Debug Probe
********************************

ST-LINK/V2-1 is a serial and debug adapter built into all Nucleo and Discovery
boards. It provides a bridge between your computer (or other USB host) and the
embedded target processor, which can be used for debugging, flash programming,
and serial communication, all over a simple USB cable.

It is compatible with the following host debug tools:

- :ref:`openocd-debug-host-tools`
- :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools`

For some STM32 based boards, it is also compatible with:

- :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools`

While it works out of the box with OpenOCD, it requires some flashing
to work with J-Link. To do this, SEGGER offers a firmware upgrading the
ST-LINK/V2-1 on board on the Nucleo and Discovery boards. This firmware makes
the ST-LINK/V2-1 compatible with J-LinkOB, allowing users to take advantage of
most J-Link features like the ultra fast flash download and debugging speed or
the free-to-use GDBServer.

More information about upgrading ST-LINK/V2-1 to JLink or restore ST-Link/V2-1
firmware please visit: `Segger over ST-Link`_

Flash and debug with ST-Link
============================

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Using OpenOCD

        OpenOCD is available by default on ST-Link and configured as the default flash
        and debug tool. Flash and debug can be done as follows:

          .. zephyr-app-commands::
             :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
             :goals: flash

          .. zephyr-app-commands::
             :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
             :goals: debug

    .. tab:: _`Using Segger J-Link`

        Once STLink is flashed with SEGGER FW and J-Link GDB server is installed on your
        host computer, you can flash and debug as follows:

        Use CMake with ``-DBOARD_FLASH_RUNNER=jlink`` to change the default OpenOCD
        runner to J-Link. Alternatively, you might add the following line to your
        application ``CMakeList.txt`` file.

          .. code-block:: cmake

             set(BOARD_FLASH_RUNNER jlink)

        If you use West (Zephyr's meta-tool) you can modify the default runner using
        the ``--runner`` (or ``-r``) option.

          .. code-block:: console

             west flash --runner jlink

        To attach a debugger to your board and open up a debug console with ``jlink``.

          .. code-block:: console

             west debug --runner jlink

        For more information about West and available options, see :ref:`west`.

        If you configured your Zephyr application to use `Segger RTT`_ console instead,
        open telnet:

          .. code-block:: console

             $ telnet localhost 19021
             Trying ::1...
             Trying 127.0.0.1...
             Connected to localhost.
             Escape character is '^]'.
             SEGGER J-Link V6.30f - Real time terminal output
             J-Link STLink V21 compiled Jun 26 2017 10:35:16 V1.0, SN=773895351
             Process: JLinkGDBServerCLExe
             Zephyr Shell, Zephyr version: 1.12.99
             Type 'help' for a list of available commands
             shell>

        If you get no RTT output you might need to disable other consoles which conflict
        with the RTT one if they are enabled by default in the particular sample or
        application you are running, such as disable UART_CONSOLE in menuconfig

Updating or restoring ST-Link firmware
======================================

ST-Link firmware can be updated using `STM32CubeProgrammer Tool`_.
It is usually useful when facing flashing issues, for instance when using
twister's device-testing option.

Once installed, you can update attached board ST-Link firmware with the
following command

  .. code-block:: console

     s java -jar ~/STMicroelectronics/STM32Cube/STM32CubeProgrammer/Drivers/FirmwareUpgrade/STLinkUpgrade.jar -sn <board_uid>

Where board_uid can be obtained using twister's generate-hardware-map
option. For more information about twister and available options, see
:ref:`twister_script`.

.. _LPCScrypt:
   https://www.nxp.com/lpcscrypt

.. _Firmware for LPCXpresso:
   https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/models/other-j-links/lpcxpresso-on-board/

.. _OpenSDA DAPLink Board-Specific Firmwares:
   https://www.nxp.com/opensda

.. _OpenSDA J-Link Generic Firmwares:
   https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink/#JLinkOpenSDAGenericFirmwares

.. _OpenSDA J-Link Board-Specific Firmwares:
   https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink/#JLinkOpenSDABoardSpecificFirmwares

.. _Segger J-Link:
   https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/

.. _Segger over ST-Link:
   https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/models/other-j-links/st-link-on-board/

.. _Segger RTT:
    https://www.segger.com/jlink-rtt.html

.. _STM32CubeProgrammer Tool:
    https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeprog.html

Commit message:

west: runner: add support for NXP's linkserver
Linkserver is a utility for launching and managing GDB servers for NXP
debug probes, which also provides a command-line target flash programming
capabilities. Linkserver can be used with NXP MCUXpresso for Visual Studio
Code.

For more information about LinkServer, please visit the LinkServer web
page (link [1] below).

This commit adds a runner to west, supporting debug and flash commands.

Documentation is also added.

[1] - LinkServer web page:
    https://www.nxp.com/design/software/development-software/mcuxpresso-software-and-tools-/linkserver-for-microcontrollers:LINKERSERVER

Signed-off-by: Yves Vandervennet <yves.vandervennet@nxp.com>

doc/develop/flash_debug/probes.rst, after:

.. _debug-probes:

Debug Probes
############

A *debug probe* is special hardware which allows you to control execution of a
Zephyr application running on a separate board. Debug probes usually allow
reading and writing registers and memory, and support breakpoint debugging of
the Zephyr application on your host workstation using tools like GDB. They may
also support other debug software and more advanced features such as
:ref:`tracing program execution <tracing>`. For details on the related host
software supported by Zephyr, see :ref:`flash-debug-host-tools`.

Debug probes are usually connected to your host workstation via USB; they
are sometimes also accessible via an IP network or other means. They usually
connect to the device running Zephyr using the JTAG or SWD protocols. Debug
probes are either separate hardware devices or circuitry integrated into the same
board which runs Zephyr.

Many supported boards in Zephyr include a second microcontroller that serves as
an onboard debug probe, usb-to-serial adapter, and sometimes a drag-and-drop
flash programmer. This eliminates the need to purchase an external debug probe
and provides a variety of debug host tool options.

Several hardware vendors have their own branded onboard debug probe
implementations: NXP LPC boards have `LPC-Link2 <#lpclink2-jlink-onboard-debug-probe>`_,
NXP Kinetis (former Freescale) boards have `OpenSDA <#opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe>`_,
and ST boards have `ST-LINK <#stlink-v21-onboard-debug-probe>`_. Each onboard debug probe
microcontroller can support one or more types of firmware that communicate with
their respective debug host tools. For example, an OpenSDA microcontroller can
be programmed with DAPLink firmware to communicate with pyOCD or OpenOCD debug
host tools, or with J-Link firmware to communicate with J-Link debug host
tools.


+---------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|| *Debug Probes & Host Tools*          |                          Host Tools                           |
+| *Compatibility Chart*                +--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|                                       |  **J-Link Debug**  |    **OpenOCD**     |      **pyOCD**      |
+----------------+----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|                | **LPC-Link2 J-Link** |           ✓        |                    |                     |
|                +----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|                | **OpenSDA DAPLink**  |                    |          ✓         |          ✓          |
|                +----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|  Debug Probes  | **OpenSDA J-Link**   |           ✓        |                    |                     |
|                +----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|                | **J-Link External**  |           ✓        |          ✓         |                     |
|                +----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+
|                | **ST-LINK/V2-1**     |           ✓        |          ✓         | *some STM32 boards* |
+----------------+----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+---------------------+


Some supported boards in Zephyr do not include an onboard debug probe and
therefore require an external debug probe. In addition, boards that do include
an onboard debug probe often also have an SWD or JTAG header to enable the use
of an external debug probe instead. One reason this may be useful is that the
onboard debug probe may have limitations, such as lack of support for advanced
debuggers or high-speed tracing. You may need to adjust jumpers to prevent the
onboard debug probe from interfering with the external debug probe.

.. _lpclink2-cmsis-onboard-debug-probe:

LPC-LINK2 CMSIS DAP Onboard Debug Probe
***************************************

The CMSIS-DAP debug probes allow debugging from any compatible toolchain,
including IAR EWARM, Keil MDK, as well as NXP’s MCUXpresso IDE and
MCUXpresso extension for VS Code.
As well as providing debug probe functionality, the LPC-Link2 probes also
provide:

1. SWO trace end point: this virtual device is used by MCUXpresso to retrieve
   SWO trace data. See the MCUXpresso IDE documentation for more information.
2. Virtual COM (VCOM) port / UART bridge connected to the target processor
3. LPCSIO bridge that provides communication to I2C and SPI slave devices

This probe is realized by programming the LPC-Link2 microcontroller with the CMSIS-DAP
LPC-Link2 firmware. Download and install `LPCScrypt`_ to get the firmware and
programming scripts.

.. note:: Verify the firmware supports your board by visiting `Firmware for LPCXpresso`_

1. Put the LPC-Link2 microcontroller into DFU boot mode by attaching the DFU
   jumper, then powering up the board.

#. Run the ``program_CMSIS`` script.

#. Remove the DFU jumper and power cycle the board.

.. _lpclink2-jlink-onboard-debug-probe:

LPC-Link2 J-Link Onboard Debug Probe
************************************

The LPC-Link2 J-Link is an onboard debug probe and usb-to-serial adapter
supported on many NXP LPC and i.MX RT development boards.

This debug probe is compatible with the following debug host tools:

- :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools`

This probe is realized by programming the LPC-Link2 microcontroller with J-Link
LPC-Link2 firmware. Download and install `LPCScrypt`_ to get the firmware and
programming scripts.

.. note:: Verify the firmware supports your board by visiting `Firmware for LPCXpresso`_

1. Put the LPC-Link2 microcontroller into DFU boot mode by attaching the DFU
   jumper, then powering up the board.

#. Run the ``program_JLINK`` script.

#. Remove the DFU jumper and power cycle the board.

.. _opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe:

OpenSDA DAPLink Onboard Debug Probe
***********************************

The OpenSDA DAPLink is an onboard debug probe and usb-to-serial adapter
supported on many NXP Kinetis and i.MX RT development boards. It also includes
drag-and-drop flash programming support.

This debug probe is compatible with the following debug host tools:

- :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools`
- :ref:`openocd-debug-host-tools`

This probe is realized by programming the OpenSDA microcontroller with DAPLink
OpenSDA firmware. NXP provides `OpenSDA DAPLink Board-Specific Firmwares`_.

Install the debug host tools before you program the firmware.

As with all OpenSDA debug probes, the steps for programming the firmware are:

1. Put the OpenSDA microcontroller into bootloader mode by holding the reset
   button while you power on the board. Note that "bootloader mode" in this
   context applies to the OpenSDA microcontroller itself, not the target
   microcontroller of your Zephyr application.

#. After you power on the board, release the reset button. A USB mass storage
   device called **BOOTLOADER** or **MAINTENANCE** will enumerate.

#. Copy the OpenSDA firmware binary to the USB mass storage device.

#. Power cycle the board, this time without holding the reset button. You
   should see three USB devices enumerate: a CDC device (serial port), a HID
   device (debug port), and a mass storage device (drag-and-drop flash
   programming).

.. _opensda-jlink-onboard-debug-probe:

OpenSDA J-Link Onboard Debug Probe
**********************************

The OpenSDA J-Link is an onboard debug probe and usb-to-serial adapter
supported on many NXP Kinetis and i.MX RT development boards.

This debug probe is compatible with the following debug host tools:

- :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools`

This probe is realized by programming the OpenSDA microcontroller with J-Link
OpenSDA firmware. Segger provides `OpenSDA J-Link Generic Firmwares`_ and
`OpenSDA J-Link Board-Specific Firmwares`_, where the latter is generally
recommended when available. Board-specific firmwares are required for i.MX RT
boards to support their external flash memories, whereas generic firmwares are
compatible with all Kinetis boards.

Install the debug host tools before you program the firmware.

As with all OpenSDA debug probes, the steps for programming the firmware are:

1. Put the OpenSDA microcontroller into bootloader mode by holding the reset
   button while you power on the board. Note that "bootloader mode" in this
   context applies to the OpenSDA microcontroller itself, not the target
   microcontroller of your Zephyr application.

#. After you power on the board, release the reset button. A USB mass storage
   device called **BOOTLOADER** or **MAINTENANCE** will enumerate.

#. Copy the OpenSDA firmware binary to the USB mass storage device.

#. Power cycle the board, this time without holding the reset button. You
   should see two USB devices enumerate: a CDC device (serial port) and a
   vendor-specific device (debug port).

.. _jlink-external-debug-probe:

J-Link External Debug Probe
***************************

`Segger J-Link`_ is a family of external debug probes, including J-Link EDU,
J-Link PLUS, J-Link ULTRA+, and J-Link PRO, that support a large number of
devices from different hardware architectures and vendors.

This debug probe is compatible with the following debug host tools:

- :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools`
- :ref:`openocd-debug-host-tools`

Install the debug host tools before you program the firmware.

.. _stlink-v21-onboard-debug-probe:

ST-LINK/V2-1 Onboard Debug Probe
********************************

ST-LINK/V2-1 is a serial and debug adapter built into all Nucleo and Discovery
boards. It provides a bridge between your computer (or other USB host) and the
embedded target processor, which can be used for debugging, flash programming,
and serial communication, all over a simple USB cable.

It is compatible with the following host debug tools:

- :ref:`openocd-debug-host-tools`
- :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools`

For some STM32 based boards, it is also compatible with:

- :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools`

While it works out of the box with OpenOCD, it requires some flashing
to work with J-Link. To do this, SEGGER offers a firmware upgrading the
ST-LINK/V2-1 on board on the Nucleo and Discovery boards. This firmware makes
the ST-LINK/V2-1 compatible with J-LinkOB, allowing users to take advantage of
most J-Link features like the ultra fast flash download and debugging speed or
the free-to-use GDBServer.

More information about upgrading ST-LINK/V2-1 to JLink or restore ST-Link/V2-1
firmware please visit: `Segger over ST-Link`_

Flash and debug with ST-Link
============================

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Using OpenOCD

        OpenOCD is available by default on ST-Link and configured as the default flash
        and debug tool. Flash and debug can be done as follows:

          .. zephyr-app-commands::
             :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
             :goals: flash

          .. zephyr-app-commands::
             :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
             :goals: debug

    .. tab:: _`Using Segger J-Link`

        Once STLink is flashed with SEGGER FW and J-Link GDB server is installed on your
        host computer, you can flash and debug as follows:

        Use CMake with ``-DBOARD_FLASH_RUNNER=jlink`` to change the default OpenOCD
        runner to J-Link. Alternatively, you might add the following line to your
        application ``CMakeList.txt`` file.

          .. code-block:: cmake

             set(BOARD_FLASH_RUNNER jlink)

        If you use West (Zephyr's meta-tool) you can modify the default runner using
        the ``--runner`` (or ``-r``) option.

          .. code-block:: console

             west flash --runner jlink

        To attach a debugger to your board and open up a debug console with ``jlink``.

          .. code-block:: console

             west debug --runner jlink

        For more information about West and available options, see :ref:`west`.

        If you configured your Zephyr application to use `Segger RTT`_ console instead,
        open telnet:

          .. code-block:: console

             $ telnet localhost 19021
             Trying ::1...
             Trying 127.0.0.1...
             Connected to localhost.
             Escape character is '^]'.
             SEGGER J-Link V6.30f - Real time terminal output
             J-Link STLink V21 compiled Jun 26 2017 10:35:16 V1.0, SN=773895351
             Process: JLinkGDBServerCLExe
             Zephyr Shell, Zephyr version: 1.12.99
             Type 'help' for a list of available commands
             shell>

        If you get no RTT output you might need to disable other consoles which conflict
        with the RTT one if they are enabled by default in the particular sample or
        application you are running, such as disable UART_CONSOLE in menuconfig

Updating or restoring ST-Link firmware
======================================

ST-Link firmware can be updated using `STM32CubeProgrammer Tool`_.
It is usually useful when facing flashing issues, for instance when using
twister's device-testing option.

Once installed, you can update attached board ST-Link firmware with the
following command

  .. code-block:: console

     s java -jar ~/STMicroelectronics/STM32Cube/STM32CubeProgrammer/Drivers/FirmwareUpgrade/STLinkUpgrade.jar -sn <board_uid>

Where board_uid can be obtained using twister's generate-hardware-map
option. For more information about twister and available options, see
:ref:`twister_script`.

.. _LPCScrypt:
   https://www.nxp.com/lpcscrypt

.. _Firmware for LPCXpresso:
   https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/models/other-j-links/lpcxpresso-on-board/

.. _OpenSDA DAPLink Board-Specific Firmwares:
   https://www.nxp.com/opensda

.. _OpenSDA J-Link Generic Firmwares:
   https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink/#JLinkOpenSDAGenericFirmwares

.. _OpenSDA J-Link Board-Specific Firmwares:
   https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink/#JLinkOpenSDABoardSpecificFirmwares

.. _Segger J-Link:
   https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/

.. _Segger over ST-Link:
   https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/models/other-j-links/st-link-on-board/

.. _Segger RTT:
    https://www.segger.com/jlink-rtt.html

.. _STM32CubeProgrammer Tool:
    https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeprog.html
