doc/hardware/peripherals/uart.rst, before:

.. _uart_api:

Universal Asynchronous Receiver-Transmitter (UART)
##################################################

Overview
********

Zephyr provides three different ways to access the UART peripheral. Depending
on the method, different API functions are used according to below sections:

1. :ref:`uart_polling_api`
2. :ref:`uart_interrupt_api`
3. :ref:`uart_async_api` using :ref:`dma_api`

Polling is the most basic method to access the UART peripheral. The reading
function, `uart_poll_in`, is a non-blocking function and returns a character
or `-1` when no valid data is available. The writing function,
`uart_poll_out`, is a blocking function and the thread waits until the given
character is sent.

With the Interrupt-driven API, possibly slow communication can happen in the
background while the thread continues with other tasks. The Kernel's
:ref:`kernel_data_passing_api` features can be used to communicate between
the thread and the UART driver.

The Asynchronous API allows to read and write data in the background using DMA
without interrupting the MCU at all. However, the setup is more complex
than the other methods.


Configuration Options
*********************

Most importantly, the Kconfig options define whether the polling API (default),
the interrupt-driven API or the asynchronous API can be used. Only enable the
features you need in order to minimize memory footprint.

Related configuration options:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SERIAL`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_INTERRUPT_DRIVEN`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_ASYNC_API`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_WIDE_DATA`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_USE_RUNTIME_CONFIGURE`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_LINE_CTRL`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_DRV_CMD`


API Reference
*************

.. doxygengroup:: uart_interface


.. _uart_polling_api:

Polling API
===========

.. doxygengroup:: uart_polling


.. _uart_interrupt_api:

Interrupt-driven API
====================

.. doxygengroup:: uart_interrupt


.. _uart_async_api:

Asynchronous API
================

.. doxygengroup:: uart_async

Commit message:

serial: allow callback setting to be exclusive
Both the IRQ API and Asynchronous API support callback.
However, since they are both interrupt driven, having
callbacks on both API would interfere with each other
in almost all cases. So this adds a kconfig to signal
that the callbacks should be exclusive to each other.
In other words, if one is set, the other should not
be active. Drivers implementing both APIs have been
updated to remove the callbacks from the other API.
Though, this still leaves the option to disable
the kconfig and allows both APIs to have callbacks
if one desires.

Fixes #48606

Signed-off-by: Daniel Leung <daniel.leung@intel.com>

doc/hardware/peripherals/uart.rst, after:

.. _uart_api:

Universal Asynchronous Receiver-Transmitter (UART)
##################################################

Overview
********

Zephyr provides three different ways to access the UART peripheral. Depending
on the method, different API functions are used according to below sections:

1. :ref:`uart_polling_api`
2. :ref:`uart_interrupt_api`
3. :ref:`uart_async_api` using :ref:`dma_api`

Polling is the most basic method to access the UART peripheral. The reading
function, `uart_poll_in`, is a non-blocking function and returns a character
or `-1` when no valid data is available. The writing function,
`uart_poll_out`, is a blocking function and the thread waits until the given
character is sent.

With the Interrupt-driven API, possibly slow communication can happen in the
background while the thread continues with other tasks. The Kernel's
:ref:`kernel_data_passing_api` features can be used to communicate between
the thread and the UART driver.

The Asynchronous API allows to read and write data in the background using DMA
without interrupting the MCU at all. However, the setup is more complex
than the other methods.

.. warning::

   Interrupt-driven API and the Asynchronous API should NOT be used at
   the same time, since both APIs require hardware interrupts to function
   properly, using the callbacks for both APIs would result in interference
   between each other. :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_EXCLUSIVE_API_CALLBACKS`
   is enabled by default so that only the callbacks associated with one API
   is active at a time.


Configuration Options
*********************

Most importantly, the Kconfig options define whether the polling API (default),
the interrupt-driven API or the asynchronous API can be used. Only enable the
features you need in order to minimize memory footprint.

Related configuration options:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SERIAL`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_INTERRUPT_DRIVEN`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_ASYNC_API`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_WIDE_DATA`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_USE_RUNTIME_CONFIGURE`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_LINE_CTRL`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UART_DRV_CMD`


API Reference
*************

.. doxygengroup:: uart_interface


.. _uart_polling_api:

Polling API
===========

.. doxygengroup:: uart_polling


.. _uart_interrupt_api:

Interrupt-driven API
====================

.. doxygengroup:: uart_interrupt


.. _uart_async_api:

Asynchronous API
================

.. doxygengroup:: uart_async
