samples/subsys/console/getchar/README.rst, before:

.. _console_getchar_sample:

console_getchar() Sample Application
####################################

Overview
********

This example shows how to use :c:func:`console_getchar` function.
Similar to the well-known ANSI C getchar() function,
:c:func:`console_getchar` either returns the next available input
character or blocks waiting for one. Using this function, it should be
fairly easy to port existing ANSI C, POSIX, or Linux applications which
process console input character by character. The sample also allows to
see key/character codes as returned by the function.

If you are interested in line by line console input, see
:ref:`console_getline_sample`.


Requirements
************

UART console is required to run this sample.


Building and Running
********************

The easiest way to run this sample is using QEMU:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/console/getchar
   :host-os: unix
   :board: qemu_x86
   :goals: run
   :compact:

Now start pressing keys on a keyboard, and they will be printed both as
hex values and in character form. Be sure to press Enter, Up/Down, etc.
key to check what control characters are produced for them.
Exit QEMU by pressing :kbd:`CTRL+A` :kbd:`x`.

Commit message:

doc: Migrate subsys/ code samples to new Sphinx extension
This migrates the subsys code samples to the new Sphinx code-sample
extension, making it easier to find relevant samples when browsing
API reference.

Signed-off-by: Benjamin Cabé <benjamin@zephyrproject.org>

samples/subsys/console/getchar/README.rst, after:

.. zephyr:code-sample:: console_getchar
   :name: console_getchar()

   Use console_getchar() to read an input character from the console.

Overview
********

This example shows how to use :c:func:`console_getchar` function.
Similar to the well-known ANSI C getchar() function,
:c:func:`console_getchar` either returns the next available input
character or blocks waiting for one. Using this function, it should be
fairly easy to port existing ANSI C, POSIX, or Linux applications which
process console input character by character. The sample also allows to
see key/character codes as returned by the function.

If you are interested in line by line console input, see
:zephyr:code-sample:`console_getline`.


Requirements
************

UART console is required to run this sample.


Building and Running
********************

The easiest way to run this sample is using QEMU:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/console/getchar
   :host-os: unix
   :board: qemu_x86
   :goals: run
   :compact:

Now start pressing keys on a keyboard, and they will be printed both as
hex values and in character form. Be sure to press Enter, Up/Down, etc.
key to check what control characters are produced for them.
Exit QEMU by pressing :kbd:`CTRL+A` :kbd:`x`.
