doc/connectivity/bluetooth/api/mesh/od_cli.rst, before:

.. _bluetooth_mesh_od_cli:

On-Demand Private Proxy Client
##############################

The On-Demand Private Proxy Client model is a foundation model defined by the Bluetooth
mesh specification. The model is optional, and is enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_OD_PRIV_PROXY_CLI` option.

The On-Demand Private Proxy Client model was introduced in the Bluetooth Mesh Protocol
Specification version 1.1, and is used to set and retrieve the On-Demand Private GATT Proxy state. The state defines
how long a node will advertise Mesh Proxy Service with Private Network Identity type after it receives a Solicitation PDU.

The On-Demand Private Proxy Client model communicates with an On-Demand Private Proxy Server model
using the device key of the node containing the target On-Demand Private Proxy Server model instance.

Configurations
**************

The On-Demand Private Proxy Client model behavior can be configured with the transmission timeout option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_OD_PRIV_PROXY_CLI_TIMEOUT`.
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_OD_PRIV_PROXY_CLI_TIMEOUT` controls how long the Client waits for a state response message to arrive
in milliseconds. This value can be changed at runtime using :c:func:`bt_mesh_od_priv_proxy_cli_timeout_set`.


API reference
*************

.. doxygengroup:: bt_mesh_od_priv_proxy_cli
   :project: Zephyr
   :members:

Commit message:

doc: Bluetooth: Mesh: Align wording for models instantiation req
According to https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/pull/61886#issuecomment-1713302331
we need to use "must only" for models that spec states:
`If supported, ... shall be supported by the primary element and shall
not be supported by any secondary element`.

Signed-off-by: Pavel Vasilyev <pavel.vasilyev@nordicsemi.no>

doc/connectivity/bluetooth/api/mesh/od_cli.rst, after:

.. _bluetooth_mesh_od_cli:

On-Demand Private Proxy Client
##############################

The On-Demand Private Proxy Client model is a foundation model defined by the Bluetooth
mesh specification. The model is optional, and is enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_OD_PRIV_PROXY_CLI` option.

The On-Demand Private Proxy Client model was introduced in the Bluetooth Mesh Protocol
Specification version 1.1, and is used to set and retrieve the On-Demand Private GATT Proxy state. The state defines
how long a node will advertise Mesh Proxy Service with Private Network Identity type after it receives a Solicitation PDU.

The On-Demand Private Proxy Client model communicates with an On-Demand Private Proxy Server model
using the device key of the node containing the target On-Demand Private Proxy Server model instance.

If present, the On-Demand Private Proxy Client model must only be instantiated on the primary
element.

Configurations
**************

The On-Demand Private Proxy Client model behavior can be configured with the transmission timeout option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_OD_PRIV_PROXY_CLI_TIMEOUT`.
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_OD_PRIV_PROXY_CLI_TIMEOUT` controls how long the Client waits for a state response message to arrive
in milliseconds. This value can be changed at runtime using :c:func:`bt_mesh_od_priv_proxy_cli_timeout_set`.


API reference
*************

.. doxygengroup:: bt_mesh_od_priv_proxy_cli
   :project: Zephyr
   :members:
