samples/shields/x_nucleo_iks01a2/standard/README.rst, before:

.. _x-nucleo-iks01a2-std-sample:

X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2: shield Standard (Mode 1) sample
#################################################

Overview
********
This sample enables all sensors of a X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2 shield, and then
periodically reads and displays data from the shield sensors:

- HTS221: Ambient temperature and relative humidity
- LPS22HB: Atmospheric pressure and ambient temperature
- LSM6DSL: 3-Axis Acceleration and 3-Axis Angular Velocity
- LSM303AGR 3-Axis Acceleration and 3-axis Magnetic field intensity

Requirements
************

This sample communicates over I2C with the X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2 shield
stacked on a board with an Arduino connector. The board's I2C must be
configured for the I2C Arduino connector in the devicetree. See for
example the :ref:`nucleo_f401re_board` board source code:

- :zephyr_file:`boards/arm/nucleo_f401re/nucleo_f401re.dts`
- :zephyr_file:`boards/arm/nucleo_f401re/arduino_r3_connector.dtsi`

Please note that this sample can't be used with boards already supporting
one of the sensors available on the shield (such as disco_l475_iot1) as zephyr
does not yet support sensors multiple instances.

References
**********

-X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2: http://www.st.com/en/ecosystems/x-nucleo-iks01a2.html

Building and Running
********************

This sample runs with X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2 stacked on any board with a matching
Arduino connector. For this example, we use a :ref:`nucleo_f401re_board` board.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/shields/x_nucleo_iks01a2/standard
   :board: nucleo_f401re
   :goals: build
   :compact:

Sample Output
=============

 .. code-block:: console

    X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2 sensor dashboard

    HTS221: Temperature: 26.3 C
    HTS221: Relative Humidity: 44.5%
    LPS22HB: Pressure:99.220 kpa
    LPS22HB: Temperature: 26.1 C
    LSM6DSL: Accel (m.s-2): x: -0.0, y: -0.1, z: 10.0
    LSM6DSL: Gyro (dps): x: 0.028, y: -0.025, z: 0.014
    LSM303AGR: Accel (m.s-2): x: 0.3, y: -0.1, z: 9.7
    LSM303AGR: Magn (gauss): x: -0.221, y: -0.042, z: -0.458

    <updated endlessly every 2 seconds>

Commit message:

samples: shields: Update Nucleo shields to new code-sample extension
Update all Nucleo shield samples and references to them so that they
use the new zephyr:code-sample extension.

Signed-off-by: Benjamin Cabé <benjamin@zephyrproject.org>

samples/shields/x_nucleo_iks01a2/standard/README.rst, after:

.. zephyr:code-sample:: x-nucleo-iks01a2-std
   :name: X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2 shield - Standard (Mode 1)
   :relevant-api: sensor_interface

   Interact with all the sensors of an X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2 shield using Standard Mode.

Overview
********
This sample enables all sensors of a X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2 shield, and then
periodically reads and displays data from the shield sensors:

- HTS221: Ambient temperature and relative humidity
- LPS22HB: Atmospheric pressure and ambient temperature
- LSM6DSL: 3-Axis Acceleration and 3-Axis Angular Velocity
- LSM303AGR 3-Axis Acceleration and 3-axis Magnetic field intensity

Requirements
************

This sample communicates over I2C with the X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2 shield
stacked on a board with an Arduino connector. The board's I2C must be
configured for the I2C Arduino connector in the devicetree. See for
example the :ref:`nucleo_f401re_board` board source code:

- :zephyr_file:`boards/arm/nucleo_f401re/nucleo_f401re.dts`
- :zephyr_file:`boards/arm/nucleo_f401re/arduino_r3_connector.dtsi`

Please note that this sample can't be used with boards already supporting
one of the sensors available on the shield (such as disco_l475_iot1) as zephyr
does not yet support sensors multiple instances.

References
**********

-X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2: http://www.st.com/en/ecosystems/x-nucleo-iks01a2.html

Building and Running
********************

This sample runs with X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2 stacked on any board with a matching
Arduino connector. For this example, we use a :ref:`nucleo_f401re_board` board.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/shields/x_nucleo_iks01a2/standard
   :board: nucleo_f401re
   :goals: build
   :compact:

Sample Output
=============

 .. code-block:: console

    X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2 sensor dashboard

    HTS221: Temperature: 26.3 C
    HTS221: Relative Humidity: 44.5%
    LPS22HB: Pressure:99.220 kpa
    LPS22HB: Temperature: 26.1 C
    LSM6DSL: Accel (m.s-2): x: -0.0, y: -0.1, z: 10.0
    LSM6DSL: Gyro (dps): x: 0.028, y: -0.025, z: 0.014
    LSM303AGR: Accel (m.s-2): x: 0.3, y: -0.1, z: 9.7
    LSM303AGR: Magn (gauss): x: -0.221, y: -0.042, z: -0.458

    <updated endlessly every 2 seconds>
