boards/arm/96b_nitrogen/doc/96b_nitrogen.rst, before:

.. _96b_nitrogen_board:

96Boards Nitrogen
#################

Overview
********

Zephyr applications use the 96b_nitrogen board configuration to run on the
96Boards Nitrogen hardware. It provides support for the Nordic Semiconductor
nRF52832 ARM Cortex-M4F CPU.

.. figure:: img/96b-nitrogen-front.png
     :width: 487px
     :align: center
     :alt: 96Boards Nitrogen

     96Boards Nitrogen

More information about the board can be found at the `seeed BLE Nitrogen`_
website. The `Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter`_ contains the processor's
information and the datasheet.

Hardware
********

96Boards Nitrogen provides the following hardware components:

- nRF52832 microcontroller with 512kB Flash, 64kB RAM
- ARM |reg| 32-bit Cortex |reg|-M4 CPU with FPU
- Bluetooth LE
- NFC
- LPC11U35 on board SWD debugger

  - SWD debugger firmware
  - USB to UART
  - Drag and Drop firmware upgrade

- 7 LEDs

  - USR1, BT, PWR, CDC, DAP, MSD, Battery charge

- SWD debug connectors

  - nRF52832 SWD connector
  - nRF52832 Uart connector

- On board chip antenna
- 1.8V work voltage
- 2x20pin 2.0mm pitch Low speed connector

Supported Features
==================

The Zephyr 96b_nitrogen board configuration supports the following hardware
features:

+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                     |
+===========+============+======================================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vectored interrupt controller |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| RTC       | on-chip    | system clock                         |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port                          |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                 |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| FLASH     | on-chip    | flash                                |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| RADIO     | on-chip    | Bluetooth                            |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| RTT       | on-chip    | console                              |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+

Other hardware features are not supported by the Zephyr kernel.
See `Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter`_ for a complete list of nRF52-based
board hardware features.

The default configuration can be found in the defconfig file:

        ``boards/arm/96b_nitrogen/96b_nitrogen_defconfig``

Pin Mapping
===========

LED
---

- LED1 / User LED (green) = P0.29
- LED2 / BT LED (blue) = P0.28

Push buttons
------------

- BUTTON = SW1 = P0.27

External Connectors
-------------------

Low Speed Header

+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| PIN #  | Signal Name | nRF52832 Functions   |
+========+=============+======================+
| 1      | GND         | GND                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 3      | UART CTS    | P.014 / TRACEDATA[3] |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 5      | UART TX     | P0.13                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 7      | UART RX     | P0.15 / TRACEDATA[2] |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 9      | UART RTS    | P0.12                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 11     | UART TX     | P0.13                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 13     | UART RX     | P0.15 / TRACEDATA[2] |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 15     | P0.22       | P0.22                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 17     | P0.20       | P0.20                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 19     | N/A         | N/A                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 21     | N/A         | N/A                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 23     | P0.02       | P0.02                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 25     | P0.04       | P0.04                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 27     | P0.06       | P0.06                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 29     | P0.08       | P0.08                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 31     | P0.16       | P0.16                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 33     | P0.18       | P0.18                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 35     | VCC         |                      |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 37     | USB5V       |                      |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 39     | GND         | GND                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+

+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| PIN #  | Signal Name | nRF52832 Functions   |
+========+=============+======================+
| 2      | GND         | GND                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 4      | PWR BTN     |                      |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 6      | RST BTN     | P0.21 / RESET        |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 8      | P0.26       | P0.26                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 10     | P0.25       | P0.25                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 12     | P0.24       | P0.24                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 14     | P0.23       | P0.23                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 16     | N/A         | N/A                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 18     | N/A         | PC7                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 20     | N/A         | PC9                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 22     | N/A         | PB8                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 24     | P0.03       | P0.03                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 26     | P0.05       | P0.05                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 28     | P0.07       | P0.07                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 30     | P0.11       | P0.11                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 32     | P0.17       | P0.17                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 34     | P0.19       | P0.19                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 36     | NC          |                      |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 38     | NC          |                      |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 40     | GND         | GND                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+

System Clock
============

nRF52 has two external oscillators. The frequency of the slow clock is
32.768 kHz. The frequency of the main clock is 32 MHz.

Flashing Zephyr onto 96Boards Nitrogen
**************************************

The 96Boards Nitrogen board can be flashed via the `CMSIS DAP`_ interface,
which is provided by the micro USB interface to the LPC11U35 chip.

Using the CMSIS-DAP interface, the board can be flashed via the USB storage
interface (drag-and-drop) and also via `pyOCD`_.

Installing pyOCD
================

The latest stable version of `pyOCD`_ can be installed via pip as follows:

.. code-block:: console

   $ pip install --pre -U pyocd

To install the latest development version (master branch), do the following:

.. code-block:: console

   $ pip install --pre -U git+https://github.com/mbedmicro/pyOCD.git#egg=pyOCD

You can then verify that your board is detected by pyOCD by running:

.. code-block:: console

   $ pyocd-flashtool -l

Common Errors
-------------

No connected boards
-------------------

If you don't use sudo when invoking pyocd-flashtool, you might get any of the
following errors:

.. code-block:: console

   No available boards are connected

.. code-block:: console

   No connected boards

.. code-block:: console

   Error: There is no board connected.

To fix the permission issue, simply add the following udev rule for the
NXP LPC1768 interface:

.. code-block:: console

   $ echo 'ATTR{idProduct}=="0204", ATTR{idVendor}=="0d28", MODE="0666", GROUP="plugdev"' > /etc/udev/rules.d/50-cmsis-dap.rules

Finally, unplug and plug the board again.

ValueError: The device has no langid
------------------------------------

As described by `pyOCD issue 259`_, you might get the
:code:`ValueError: The device has no langid` error when not running
pyOCD as root (e.g. sudo).

To fix the above error, add the udev rule shown in the previous section
and install a more recent version of pyOCD.

Flashing an Application to 96Boards Nitrogen
============================================

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application. This
requires installing the :ref:`nxp_opensda_pyocd` tools.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: 96b_nitrogen
   :goals: build flash

Run your favorite terminal program to listen for output.

.. code-block:: console

   $ minicom -D <tty_device> -b 115200

Replace :code:`<tty_device>` with the port where the board 96Boards Nitrogen
can be found. For example, under Linux, :code:`/dev/ttyACM0`.
The ``-b`` option sets baud rate ignoring the value from config.

Press the Reset button and you should see the the following message in your
terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   Hello World! arm

Debugging with GDB
==================

You can debug an application in the usual way.  Here is an example for the
:ref:`hello_world` application. This also requires pyOCD.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: 96b_nitrogen
   :maybe-skip-config:
   :goals: debug

.. _pyOCD:
    https://github.com/mbedmicro/pyOCD

.. _CMSIS DAP:
    https://developer.mbed.org/handbook/CMSIS-DAP

.. _Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter:
    http://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/

.. _seeed BLE Nitrogen:
    http://wiki.seeed.cc/BLE_Nitrogen/

.. _pyOCD issue 259:
    https://github.com/mbedmicro/pyOCD/issues/259

Commit message:

boards: 96b_nitrogen: adapt to the board configuration guidelines
As per default board configuration guidelines, this commit updates
96Boards Nitrogen board.

Following changes are done:

- Enable I2C0 and SPI0 in board dts
- Add exposed peripherals in board Kconfig
- Update board yaml
- Remove config option to select board
- Update documentation for UART, I2C and SPI

Signed-off-by: Manivannan Sadhasivam <manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>

boards/arm/96b_nitrogen/doc/96b_nitrogen.rst, after:

.. _96b_nitrogen_board:

96Boards Nitrogen
#################

Overview
********

Zephyr applications use the 96b_nitrogen board configuration to run on the
96Boards Nitrogen hardware. It provides support for the Nordic Semiconductor
nRF52832 ARM Cortex-M4F CPU.

.. figure:: img/96b-nitrogen-front.png
     :width: 487px
     :align: center
     :alt: 96Boards Nitrogen

     96Boards Nitrogen

More information about the board can be found at the `seeed BLE Nitrogen`_
website. The `Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter`_ contains the processor's
information and the datasheet.

Hardware
********

96Boards Nitrogen provides the following hardware components:

- nRF52832 microcontroller with 512kB Flash, 64kB RAM
- ARM |reg| 32-bit Cortex |reg|-M4 CPU with FPU
- Bluetooth LE
- NFC
- LPC11U35 on board SWD debugger

  - SWD debugger firmware
  - USB to UART
  - Drag and Drop firmware upgrade

- 7 LEDs

  - USR1, BT, PWR, CDC, DAP, MSD, Battery charge

- SWD debug connectors

  - nRF52832 SWD connector
  - nRF52832 Uart connector

- On board chip antenna
- 1.8V work voltage
- 2x20pin 2.0mm pitch Low speed connector

Supported Features
==================

The Zephyr 96b_nitrogen board configuration supports the following hardware
features:

+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                     |
+===========+============+======================================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vectored interrupt controller |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| RTC       | on-chip    | system clock                         |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port                          |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                 |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| FLASH     | on-chip    | flash                                |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| RADIO     | on-chip    | Bluetooth                            |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+
| RTT       | on-chip    | console                              |
+-----------+------------+--------------------------------------+

Other hardware features are not supported by the Zephyr kernel.
See `Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter`_ for a complete list of nRF52-based
board hardware features.

The default configuration can be found in the defconfig file:

        ``boards/arm/96b_nitrogen/96b_nitrogen_defconfig``

Pin Mapping
===========

LED
---

- LED1 / User LED (green) = P0.29
- LED2 / BT LED (blue) = P0.28

Push buttons
------------

- BUTTON = SW1 = P0.27

External Connectors
-------------------

Low Speed Header

+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| PIN #  | Signal Name | nRF52832 Functions   |
+========+=============+======================+
| 1      | GND         | GND                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 3      | UART CTS    | P.014 / TRACEDATA[3] |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 5      | UART TX     | P0.13                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 7      | UART RX     | P0.15 / TRACEDATA[2] |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 9      | UART RTS    | P0.12                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 11     | UART TX     | P0.13                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 13     | UART RX     | P0.15 / TRACEDATA[2] |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 15     | P0.22       | P0.22                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 17     | P0.20       | P0.20                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 19     | N/A         | N/A                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 21     | N/A         | N/A                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 23     | P0.02       | P0.02                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 25     | P0.04       | P0.04                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 27     | P0.06       | P0.06                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 29     | P0.08       | P0.08                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 31     | P0.16       | P0.16                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 33     | P0.18       | P0.18                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 35     | VCC         |                      |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 37     | USB5V       |                      |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 39     | GND         | GND                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+

+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| PIN #  | Signal Name | nRF52832 Functions   |
+========+=============+======================+
| 2      | GND         | GND                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 4      | PWR BTN     |                      |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 6      | RST BTN     | P0.21 / RESET        |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 8      | P0.26       | P0.26                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 10     | P0.25       | P0.25                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 12     | P0.24       | P0.24                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 14     | P0.23       | P0.23                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 16     | N/A         | N/A                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 18     | N/A         | PC7                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 20     | N/A         | PC9                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 22     | N/A         | PB8                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 24     | P0.03       | P0.03                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 26     | P0.05       | P0.05                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 28     | P0.07       | P0.07                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 30     | P0.11       | P0.11                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 32     | P0.17       | P0.17                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 34     | P0.19       | P0.19                |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 36     | NC          |                      |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 38     | NC          |                      |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+
| 40     | GND         | GND                  |
+--------+-------------+----------------------+

System Clock
============

nRF52 has two external oscillators. The frequency of the slow clock is
32.768 kHz. The frequency of the main clock is 32 MHz.

Serial Port
-----------

96Boards Nitrogen has one UART, which is used as Zephyr console.
Default settings is 115200 8N1.

I2C
---

96Boards Nitrogen has one I2C. The default I2C mapping for Zephyr is:

- I2C0_SCL : P0.22
- I2C0_SDA : P0.20

SPI
---

96Boards Nitrogen has one SPI. The default SPI mapping for Zephyr is:

- SPI0_NSS  : P0.24
- SPI0_SCK  : P0.26
- SPI0_MISO : P0.25
- SPI0_MOSI : P0.23

Flashing Zephyr onto 96Boards Nitrogen
**************************************

The 96Boards Nitrogen board can be flashed via the `CMSIS DAP`_ interface,
which is provided by the micro USB interface to the LPC11U35 chip.

Using the CMSIS-DAP interface, the board can be flashed via the USB storage
interface (drag-and-drop) and also via `pyOCD`_.

Installing pyOCD
================

The latest stable version of `pyOCD`_ can be installed via pip as follows:

.. code-block:: console

   $ pip install --pre -U pyocd

To install the latest development version (master branch), do the following:

.. code-block:: console

   $ pip install --pre -U git+https://github.com/mbedmicro/pyOCD.git#egg=pyOCD

You can then verify that your board is detected by pyOCD by running:

.. code-block:: console

   $ pyocd-flashtool -l

Common Errors
-------------

No connected boards
-------------------

If you don't use sudo when invoking pyocd-flashtool, you might get any of the
following errors:

.. code-block:: console

   No available boards are connected

.. code-block:: console

   No connected boards

.. code-block:: console

   Error: There is no board connected.

To fix the permission issue, simply add the following udev rule for the
NXP LPC1768 interface:

.. code-block:: console

   $ echo 'ATTR{idProduct}=="0204", ATTR{idVendor}=="0d28", MODE="0666", GROUP="plugdev"' > /etc/udev/rules.d/50-cmsis-dap.rules

Finally, unplug and plug the board again.

ValueError: The device has no langid
------------------------------------

As described by `pyOCD issue 259`_, you might get the
:code:`ValueError: The device has no langid` error when not running
pyOCD as root (e.g. sudo).

To fix the above error, add the udev rule shown in the previous section
and install a more recent version of pyOCD.

Flashing an Application to 96Boards Nitrogen
============================================

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application. This
requires installing the :ref:`nxp_opensda_pyocd` tools.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: 96b_nitrogen
   :goals: build flash

Run your favorite terminal program to listen for output.

.. code-block:: console

   $ minicom -D <tty_device> -b 115200

Replace :code:`<tty_device>` with the port where the board 96Boards Nitrogen
can be found. For example, under Linux, :code:`/dev/ttyACM0`.
The ``-b`` option sets baud rate ignoring the value from config.

Press the Reset button and you should see the the following message in your
terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   Hello World! arm

Debugging with GDB
==================

You can debug an application in the usual way.  Here is an example for the
:ref:`hello_world` application. This also requires pyOCD.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: 96b_nitrogen
   :maybe-skip-config:
   :goals: debug

.. _pyOCD:
    https://github.com/mbedmicro/pyOCD

.. _CMSIS DAP:
    https://developer.mbed.org/handbook/CMSIS-DAP

.. _Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter:
    http://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/

.. _seeed BLE Nitrogen:
    http://wiki.seeed.cc/BLE_Nitrogen/

.. _pyOCD issue 259:
    https://github.com/mbedmicro/pyOCD/issues/259
