boards/arm/nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20/doc/index.rst, before:

.. _nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20:

nRF54H20 PDK
############

Overview
********

The nRF54H20 PDK is a single-board preview development kit for evaluation
and development on the Nordic nRF54H20 System-on-Chip (SoC).

The nRF54H20 is a multicore SoC with:

* an Arm Cortex-M33 core with DSP instructions, FPU, and Armv8-M Security
  Extensions, running at up to 320 MHz, referred to as the **application core**
* an Arm Cortex-M33 core with DSP instructions, FPU, and Armv8-M Security
  Extensions, running at up to 256 MHz, referred to as the **radio core**.

The ``nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpuapp`` build target provides support for
the application core on the nRF54H20 SoC.
The ``nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpurad`` build target provides support for
the radio core on the nRF54H20 SoC.

nRF54H20 SoC provides support for the following devices:

* :abbr:`ADC (Analog to Digital Converter)`
* CLOCK
* :abbr:`GPIO (General Purpose Input Output)`
* :abbr:`GPIOTE (General Purpose Input Output tasks and events)`
* :abbr:`GRTC (Global real-time counter)`
* :abbr:`I2C (Inter-Integrated Circuit)`
* MRAM
* :abbr:`PWM (Pulse Width Modulation)`
* RADIO (Bluetooth Low Energy and 802.15.4)
* :abbr:`SPI (Serial Peripheral Interface)`
* :abbr:`UART (Universal asynchronous receiver-transmitter)`
* :abbr:`USB (Universal Serial Bus)`
* :abbr:`WDT (Watchdog Timer)`

.. figure:: img/nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20.webp
     :align: center
     :alt: nRF54H20 PDK

     nRF54H20 PDK (Credit: Nordic Semiconductor)

Hardware
********

nRF54H20 PDK has two crystal oscillators:

* High-frequency 32 MHz crystal oscillator (HFXO)
* Low-frequency 32.768 kHz crystal oscillator (LFXO)

Supported Features
==================

The nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpuapp board configuration supports the following
hardware features:

+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component     |
+===========+============+======================+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                 |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| GPIOTE    | on-chip    | gpio                 |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| GRTC      | on-chip    | system clock         |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial               |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+

The nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpurad board configuration supports the following
hardware features:

+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component     |
+===========+============+======================+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                 |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| GPIOTE    | on-chip    | gpio                 |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| GRTC      | on-chip    | system clock         |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| UARTE     | on-chip    | serial               |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+

Other hardware features have not been enabled yet for this board.

Connections and IOs
===================

LEDs
----

* LED1 (green) = P9.0
* LED2 (green) = P9.1
* LED3 (green) = P9.2
* LED4 (green) = P9.3

Push buttons
------------

* BUTTON1 = P0.8
* BUTTON2 = P0.9
* BUTTON3 = P0.10
* BUTTON4 = P0.11
* RESET (SW1)

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Applications for both the ``nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpuapp`` and
``nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpurad`` targets can be built, flashed,
and debugged in the usual way. See :ref:`build_an_application`
and :ref:`application_run` for more details on building and running.

Flashing
========

As an example, this section shows how to build and flash the :ref:`hello_world`
application.

Follow the instructions in the :ref:`nordic_segger` page to install
and configure all the necessary software. Further information can be
found in :ref:`nordic_segger_flashing`.

To build and program the sample to the nRF54H20 PDK, complete the following steps:

First, connect the nRF54H20 PDK to you computer using the IMCU USB port on the PDK.
Next, build the sample by running the following command:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpuapp
   :goals: build flash

Testing the LEDs and buttons in the nRF54H20 PDK
************************************************

There are 2 samples that allow you to test that the buttons (switches) and LEDs
on the board are working properly with Zephyr:

* :zephyr:code-sample:`blinky`
* :zephyr:code-sample:`button`

You can build and flash the examples to make sure Zephyr is running correctly on
your board. The button and LED definitions can be found in
:zephyr_file:`boards/arm/nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20/nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpuapp.dts`.

Commit message:

boards: nrf54*: Add a note about current status
The nRF54* SoCs are in a very early stage of production and the software
supporting them is to be considered experimental. Document this
accordingly in the respective boards.

Signed-off-by: Carles Cufi <carles.cufi@nordicsemi.no>

boards/arm/nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20/doc/index.rst, after:

.. _nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20:

nRF54H20 PDK
############

Overview
********

.. note::

   All software for the nRF54H20 SoC is experimental and hardware availability
   is restricted to the participants in the limited sampling program.

The nRF54H20 PDK is a single-board preview development kit for evaluation
and development on the Nordic nRF54H20 System-on-Chip (SoC).

The nRF54H20 is a multicore SoC with:

* an Arm Cortex-M33 core with DSP instructions, FPU, and Armv8-M Security
  Extensions, running at up to 320 MHz, referred to as the **application core**
* an Arm Cortex-M33 core with DSP instructions, FPU, and Armv8-M Security
  Extensions, running at up to 256 MHz, referred to as the **radio core**.

The ``nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpuapp`` build target provides support for
the application core on the nRF54H20 SoC.
The ``nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpurad`` build target provides support for
the radio core on the nRF54H20 SoC.

nRF54H20 SoC provides support for the following devices:

* :abbr:`ADC (Analog to Digital Converter)`
* CLOCK
* :abbr:`GPIO (General Purpose Input Output)`
* :abbr:`GPIOTE (General Purpose Input Output tasks and events)`
* :abbr:`GRTC (Global real-time counter)`
* :abbr:`I2C (Inter-Integrated Circuit)`
* MRAM
* :abbr:`PWM (Pulse Width Modulation)`
* RADIO (Bluetooth Low Energy and 802.15.4)
* :abbr:`SPI (Serial Peripheral Interface)`
* :abbr:`UART (Universal asynchronous receiver-transmitter)`
* :abbr:`USB (Universal Serial Bus)`
* :abbr:`WDT (Watchdog Timer)`

.. figure:: img/nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20.webp
     :align: center
     :alt: nRF54H20 PDK

     nRF54H20 PDK (Credit: Nordic Semiconductor)

Hardware
********

nRF54H20 PDK has two crystal oscillators:

* High-frequency 32 MHz crystal oscillator (HFXO)
* Low-frequency 32.768 kHz crystal oscillator (LFXO)

Supported Features
==================

The nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpuapp board configuration supports the following
hardware features:

+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component     |
+===========+============+======================+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                 |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| GPIOTE    | on-chip    | gpio                 |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| GRTC      | on-chip    | system clock         |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial               |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+

The nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpurad board configuration supports the following
hardware features:

+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component     |
+===========+============+======================+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                 |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| GPIOTE    | on-chip    | gpio                 |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| GRTC      | on-chip    | system clock         |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| UARTE     | on-chip    | serial               |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+

Other hardware features have not been enabled yet for this board.

Connections and IOs
===================

LEDs
----

* LED1 (green) = P9.0
* LED2 (green) = P9.1
* LED3 (green) = P9.2
* LED4 (green) = P9.3

Push buttons
------------

* BUTTON1 = P0.8
* BUTTON2 = P0.9
* BUTTON3 = P0.10
* BUTTON4 = P0.11
* RESET (SW1)

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Applications for both the ``nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpuapp`` and
``nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpurad`` targets can be built, flashed,
and debugged in the usual way. See :ref:`build_an_application`
and :ref:`application_run` for more details on building and running.

Flashing
========

As an example, this section shows how to build and flash the :ref:`hello_world`
application.

Follow the instructions in the :ref:`nordic_segger` page to install
and configure all the necessary software. Further information can be
found in :ref:`nordic_segger_flashing`.

To build and program the sample to the nRF54H20 PDK, complete the following steps:

First, connect the nRF54H20 PDK to you computer using the IMCU USB port on the PDK.
Next, build the sample by running the following command:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpuapp
   :goals: build flash

Testing the LEDs and buttons in the nRF54H20 PDK
************************************************

There are 2 samples that allow you to test that the buttons (switches) and LEDs
on the board are working properly with Zephyr:

* :zephyr:code-sample:`blinky`
* :zephyr:code-sample:`button`

You can build and flash the examples to make sure Zephyr is running correctly on
your board. The button and LED definitions can be found in
:zephyr_file:`boards/arm/nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20/nrf54h20pdk_nrf54h20_cpuapp.dts`.
