samples/shields/x_nucleo_iks02a1/standard/README.rst, before:

.. _x-nucleo-iks02a1-std-sample:

X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 shield: Standard (Mode 1) sample
#################################################

Overview
********
This sample is provided as an example to test the X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 shield
configured in Standard mode (Mode 1).
Please refer to :ref:`x-nucleo-iks02a1` for more info on this configuration.

This sample enables all sensors of a X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 shield, and then
periodically reads and displays data from the shield sensors:

- IIS2MDC 3-Axis magnetic field intensity
- IIS2DLPC 3-Axis acceleration
- ISM330DHCX 6-Axis acceleration and angular velocity

Requirements
************

This sample communicates over I2C with the X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 shield
stacked on a board with an Arduino connector. The board's I2C must be
configured for the I2C Arduino connector (both for pin muxing
and devicetree). See for example the :ref:`nucleo_f401re_board` board
source code:

- :file:`$ZEPHYR_BASE/boards/arm/nucleo_f401re/nucleo_f401re.dts`
- :file:`$ZEPHYR_BASE/boards/arm/nucleo_f401re/pinmux.c`

Please note that this sample can't be used with boards already supporting
one of the sensors available on the shield (such as disco_l475_iot1)
as sensors multiple instances are not supported.

References
**********

- X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1: http://www.st.com/en/ecosystems/x-nucleo-iks02a1.html

Building and Running
********************

This sample runs with X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 stacked on any board with a matching
Arduino connector. For this example, we use a :ref:`nucleo_f401re_board` board.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/shields/x_nucleo_iks02a1/standard/
   :host-os: unix
   :board: nucleo_f401re
   :goals: build
   :compact:

Sample Output
=============

 .. code-block:: console

    X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 sensor Mode 1 dashboard

    IIS2DLPC: Accel (m.s-2): x: 0.000, y: 0.000, z: 9.342
    IIS2MDC: Magn (gauss): x: -0.120, y: -0.095, z: -0.338
    IIS2MDC: Temperature: 25.1 C
    ISM330DHCX: Accel (m.s-2): x: 0.182, y: -0.306, z: 9.753
    ISM330DHCX: GYro (dps): x: 0.005, y: 0.001, z: -0.004
    5:: iis2dlpc trig 809
    5:: ism330dhcx acc trig 3332
    5:: ism330dhcx gyr trig 1666

    <updated endlessly every 2 seconds>

Commit message:

samples: shields: Update Nucleo shields to new code-sample extension
Update all Nucleo shield samples and references to them so that they
use the new zephyr:code-sample extension.

Signed-off-by: Benjamin Cabé <benjamin@zephyrproject.org>

samples/shields/x_nucleo_iks02a1/standard/README.rst, after:

.. zephyr:code-sample:: x-nucleo-iks02a1-std
   :name: X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 shield - Standard (Mode 1)
   :relevant-api: sensor_interface

   Interact with all the sensors of an X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 shield using Standard mode.

Overview
********
This sample is provided as an example to test the X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 shield
configured in Standard mode (Mode 1).
Please refer to :ref:`x-nucleo-iks02a1` for more info on this configuration.

This sample enables all sensors of a X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 shield, and then
periodically reads and displays data from the shield sensors:

- IIS2MDC 3-Axis magnetic field intensity
- IIS2DLPC 3-Axis acceleration
- ISM330DHCX 6-Axis acceleration and angular velocity

Requirements
************

This sample communicates over I2C with the X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 shield
stacked on a board with an Arduino connector. The board's I2C must be
configured for the I2C Arduino connector (both for pin muxing
and devicetree). See for example the :ref:`nucleo_f401re_board` board
source code:

- :file:`$ZEPHYR_BASE/boards/arm/nucleo_f401re/nucleo_f401re.dts`
- :file:`$ZEPHYR_BASE/boards/arm/nucleo_f401re/pinmux.c`

Please note that this sample can't be used with boards already supporting
one of the sensors available on the shield (such as disco_l475_iot1)
as sensors multiple instances are not supported.

References
**********

- X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1: http://www.st.com/en/ecosystems/x-nucleo-iks02a1.html

Building and Running
********************

This sample runs with X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 stacked on any board with a matching
Arduino connector. For this example, we use a :ref:`nucleo_f401re_board` board.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/shields/x_nucleo_iks02a1/standard/
   :host-os: unix
   :board: nucleo_f401re
   :goals: build
   :compact:

Sample Output
=============

 .. code-block:: console

    X-NUCLEO-IKS02A1 sensor Mode 1 dashboard

    IIS2DLPC: Accel (m.s-2): x: 0.000, y: 0.000, z: 9.342
    IIS2MDC: Magn (gauss): x: -0.120, y: -0.095, z: -0.338
    IIS2MDC: Temperature: 25.1 C
    ISM330DHCX: Accel (m.s-2): x: 0.182, y: -0.306, z: 9.753
    ISM330DHCX: GYro (dps): x: 0.005, y: 0.001, z: -0.004
    5:: iis2dlpc trig 809
    5:: ism330dhcx acc trig 3332
    5:: ism330dhcx gyr trig 1666

    <updated endlessly every 2 seconds>
