boards/arm/cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt/doc/index.rst, before:

.. _cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt:

INFINEON PSoC6 WiFi-BT Pioneer Kit
##################################

Overview
********

The PSoC 6 WiFi-BT Pioneer Kit (CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT) is a low-cost hardware
platform that enables design and debug of the PSoC 62 MCU and the Murata
LBEE5KL1DX Module (CYW4343W WiFi + Bluetooth Combo Chip).

The PSoC 6 WiFi-BT Pioneer Kit features the PSoC 62 MCU: a
dual-core MCU, with a 150-MHz Arm Cortex-M4 as the primary application
processor and a 100-MHz Arm Cortex-M0+ that supports low-power operations,
1MB of Flash, 288KB of SRAM, 104 GPIO, 7 programmable analog blocks,
56 programmable digital blocks, Full-Speed USB, a serial memory interface,
a PDM-PCM digital microphone interface, and industry-leading capacitive-sensing
with CapSense.

The PSoC 6 WiFi-BT Pioneer board offers compatibility with Arduino shields.

The Cortex-M0+ is a primary core on the board's SoC. It starts first and
enables the CM4 core.

.. image:: img/cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt_m0.jpg
     :align: center
     :alt: CY8CKIT_062_WIFI_BT

1. USB PD output voltage availability indicator (LED7)
2. Battery charging indicator (LED6)
3. KitProg2 USB Type-C connector (J10)
4. Cypress EZ-PD™ CCG3 Type-C Port Controller with PD (CYPD3125-40LQXI, U3)
5. KitProg2 programming mode selection button (SW3)
6. KitProg2 I/O header (J6)1
7. KitProg2 programming/custom application header (J7)1
8. External power supply connector (J9)
9. PSoC 6 user button (SW2)
10. KitProg2 application selection button (SW4)
11. Digilent® Pmod™ compatible I/O header (J14)1
12. Power LED (LED4)
13. KitProg2 status LEDs (LED1, LED2, and LED3)
14. PSoC 6 reset button (SW1)
15. PSoC 6 I/O header (J18, J19 and J20)
16. Arduino™ Uno R3 compatible power header (J1)
17. PSoC 6 debug and trace header (J12)
18. Arduino Uno R3 compatible PSoC 6 I/O header (J2, J3 and J4)
19. PSoC 6 program and debug header (J11)
20. CapSense proximity header (J13)
21. CapSense slider and buttons
22. PSoC 6 VDD selection switch (SW5)
23. Cypress  512-Mbit  serial  NOR  Flash  memory  (S25-FL512S, U4)
24. PSoC 6 user LEDs (LED8 and LED9)
25. RGB LED (LED5)
26. WiFi/BT module (LBEE5KL 1DX, U6)
27. Cypress serial Ferroelectric RAM (U5)1
28. WiFi-BT Antenna
29. VBACKUP and PMIC control selection switch (SW7)2
30. PSoC 6 USB device Type-C connector (J28)
31. Cypress PSoC 6 (CY8C6247BZI-D54, U1)
32. PSoC 6 USB Host Type-A connector (J27)
33. Arduino Uno R3 compatible ICSP header (J5)1
34. PSoC 6 power monitoring jumper (J8)2
35. KitProg2  (PSoC  5LP)  programmer  and  debugger(CY8C5868LTI-LP039, U2)
36. Battery connector (J15)1,2
37. USB PD output voltage (9V/12V) connector (J16)

Hardware
********

For more information about the PSoC 62 MCU SoC and CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT board:

- `PSoC 62 MCU SoC Website`_
- `PSoC 62 MCU Datasheet`_
- `PSoC 62 MCU Architecture Reference Manual`_
- `PSoC 62 MCU Register Reference Manual`_
- `CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT Website`_
- `CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT User Guide`_
- `CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT Schematics`_

Supported Features
==================

The board configuration supports the following hardware features:

+-----------+------------+-----------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component      |
+===========+============+=======================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vectored       |
|           |            | interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-----------------------+
| SYSTICK   | on-chip    | system clock          |
+-----------+------------+-----------------------+
| PINCTRL   | on-chip    | pin control           |
+-----------+------------+-----------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port-polling;  |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt |
+-----------+------------+-----------------------+


The default configuration can be found in the Kconfig
:zephyr_file:`boards/arm/cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt/cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt_m0_defconfig`.


System Clock
============

The PSoC 62 MCU SoC is configured to use the internal IMO+FLL as a source for
the system clock. CM0+ works at 50MHz, CM4 - at 100MHz. Other sources for the
system clock are provided in the SOC, depending on your system requirements.

Serial Port
===========

The PSoC 62 MCU SoC has 9 SCB blocks 8 of each can be configured as UART
interfaces for serial communication. At the moment UART5 on SCB5 and UART6 on
SCB6 are configured. SCB5 is connected to the onboard KitProg2's USB-UART
Bridge, SCB6 to P12_0, P12_1 pins on the J3 of the Arduino Uno R3 compatible
PSoC6 I/O header.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

The CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT includes an onboard programmer/debugger (KitProg2) with
mass storage programming to provide debugging, flash programming, and serial
communication over USB. There are also PSoC 6 program and debug headers J11
and J12 that can be used with Segger J-Link.
A watchdog timer is enabled by default. To disable it call Cy_WDT_Unlock() and
Cy_WDT_Disable().

Only the CM0+ core starts by default after the MCU reset.  In order to have
CM4 core working FW for both cores should be written into Flash.  CM0+ FW
should starts the CM4 core at one point using
Cy_SysEnableCM4(CM4_START_ADDRESS); call.  CM4_START_ADDRESS is 0x10060000 in
the current configuration. The CM0+/CM4 Flash/SRAM areas are defined in
:zephyr_file:`dts/arm/cypress/psoc6.dtsi`.

Build the project for CM0+

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :board: cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt_m0
   :goals: build

Switch the DevKit into CMSIS-DAP mode using SW3 (LED2 should blink) and flash
the board:

.. code-block:: console

   $<openocd_path>\bin\openocd -c "source [find interface/cmsis-dap.cfg]" \
      -c "transport select swd" -c "source [find target/psoc6.cfg]" \
      -c "if [catch {program {<zephyr_path>\samples\hello_world\build\zephyr\zephyr.elf}} ] \
         { echo {** Program operation failed **} } \
         else { echo {** Program operation completed successfully **} }" \
      -c "reset_config srst_only;reset run;psoc6.dap dpreg 0x04 0x00;shutdown"

Switch the DevKit back using SW3. Open a serial terminal (minicom, putty,
etc.) and connect to the board with the following settings:

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Reset the board and the following message will appear on the corresponding
serial port:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS zephyr-v1.13.0-1877-g9d14874db1 *****
   Hello World! cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt_m0


References
**********

.. _PSoC 62 MCU SoC Website:
	http://www.cypress.com/products/32-bit-arm-cortex-m4-psoc-6

.. _PSoC 62 MCU Datasheet:
	http://www.cypress.com/documentation/datasheets/psoc-6-mcu-psoc-62-datasheet-programmable-system-chip-psoc-preliminary

.. _PSoC 62 MCU Architecture Reference Manual:
	http://www.cypress.com/documentation/technical-reference-manuals/psoc-6-mcu-psoc-62-architecture-technical-reference-manual

.. _PSoC 62 MCU Register Reference Manual:
	http://www.cypress.com/documentation/technical-reference-manuals/psoc-6-mcu-psoc-62-register-technical-reference-manual-trm

.. _CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT Website:
   http://www.cypress.com/documentation/development-kitsboards/psoc-6-wifi-bt-pioneer-kit

.. _CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT User Guide:
   http://www.cypress.com/file/407731/download

.. _CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT Schematics:
   http://www.cypress.com/file/420846/download

Commit message:

west flash: openocd: support using modustoolbox added
User guide is updated with support for OPenOCD using ModusToolbox

Signed-off-by: Ritwika Dey <Ritwika.Dey@infineon.com>

boards/arm/cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt/doc/index.rst, after:

.. _cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt:

INFINEON PSoC6 WiFi-BT Pioneer Kit
##################################

Overview
********

The PSoC 6 WiFi-BT Pioneer Kit (CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT) is a low-cost hardware
platform that enables design and debug of the PSoC 62 MCU and the Murata
LBEE5KL1DX Module (CYW4343W WiFi + Bluetooth Combo Chip).

The PSoC 6 WiFi-BT Pioneer Kit features the PSoC 62 MCU: a
dual-core MCU, with a 150-MHz Arm Cortex-M4 as the primary application
processor and a 100-MHz Arm Cortex-M0+ that supports low-power operations,
1MB of Flash, 288KB of SRAM, 104 GPIO, 7 programmable analog blocks,
56 programmable digital blocks, Full-Speed USB, a serial memory interface,
a PDM-PCM digital microphone interface, and industry-leading capacitive-sensing
with CapSense.

The PSoC 6 WiFi-BT Pioneer board offers compatibility with Arduino shields.

The Cortex-M0+ is a primary core on the board's SoC. It starts first and
enables the CM4 core.

.. image:: img/cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt_m0.jpg
     :align: center
     :alt: CY8CKIT_062_WIFI_BT

1. USB PD output voltage availability indicator (LED7)
2. Battery charging indicator (LED6)
3. KitProg2 USB Type-C connector (J10)
4. Cypress EZ-PD™ CCG3 Type-C Port Controller with PD (CYPD3125-40LQXI, U3)
5. KitProg2 programming mode selection button (SW3)
6. KitProg2 I/O header (J6)1
7. KitProg2 programming/custom application header (J7)1
8. External power supply connector (J9)
9. PSoC 6 user button (SW2)
10. KitProg2 application selection button (SW4)
11. Digilent® Pmod™ compatible I/O header (J14)1
12. Power LED (LED4)
13. KitProg2 status LEDs (LED1, LED2, and LED3)
14. PSoC 6 reset button (SW1)
15. PSoC 6 I/O header (J18, J19 and J20)
16. Arduino™ Uno R3 compatible power header (J1)
17. PSoC 6 debug and trace header (J12)
18. Arduino Uno R3 compatible PSoC 6 I/O header (J2, J3 and J4)
19. PSoC 6 program and debug header (J11)
20. CapSense proximity header (J13)
21. CapSense slider and buttons
22. PSoC 6 VDD selection switch (SW5)
23. Cypress  512-Mbit  serial  NOR  Flash  memory  (S25-FL512S, U4)
24. PSoC 6 user LEDs (LED8 and LED9)
25. RGB LED (LED5)
26. WiFi/BT module (LBEE5KL 1DX, U6)
27. Cypress serial Ferroelectric RAM (U5)1
28. WiFi-BT Antenna
29. VBACKUP and PMIC control selection switch (SW7)2
30. PSoC 6 USB device Type-C connector (J28)
31. Cypress PSoC 6 (CY8C6247BZI-D54, U1)
32. PSoC 6 USB Host Type-A connector (J27)
33. Arduino Uno R3 compatible ICSP header (J5)1
34. PSoC 6 power monitoring jumper (J8)2
35. KitProg2  (PSoC  5LP)  programmer  and  debugger(CY8C5868LTI-LP039, U2)
36. Battery connector (J15)1,2
37. USB PD output voltage (9V/12V) connector (J16)

Hardware
********

For more information about the PSoC 62 MCU SoC and CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT board:

- `PSoC 62 MCU SoC Website`_
- `PSoC 62 MCU Datasheet`_
- `PSoC 62 MCU Architecture Reference Manual`_
- `PSoC 62 MCU Register Reference Manual`_
- `CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT Website`_
- `CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT User Guide`_
- `CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT Schematics`_

Supported Features
==================

The board configuration supports the following hardware features:

+-----------+------------+-----------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component      |
+===========+============+=======================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vectored       |
|           |            | interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-----------------------+
| SYSTICK   | on-chip    | system clock          |
+-----------+------------+-----------------------+
| PINCTRL   | on-chip    | pin control           |
+-----------+------------+-----------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port-polling;  |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt |
+-----------+------------+-----------------------+


The default configuration can be found in the Kconfig
:zephyr_file:`boards/arm/cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt/cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt_m0_defconfig`.


System Clock
============

The PSoC 62 MCU SoC is configured to use the internal IMO+FLL as a source for
the system clock. CM0+ works at 50MHz, CM4 - at 100MHz. Other sources for the
system clock are provided in the SOC, depending on your system requirements.

Serial Port
===========

The PSoC 62 MCU SoC has 9 SCB blocks 8 of each can be configured as UART
interfaces for serial communication. At the moment UART5 on SCB5 and UART6 on
SCB6 are configured. SCB5 is connected to the onboard KitProg2's USB-UART
Bridge, SCB6 to P12_0, P12_1 pins on the J3 of the Arduino Uno R3 compatible
PSoC6 I/O header.

OpenOCD Installation
====================

To get the OpenOCD package, it is required that you

1. Download the software ModusToolbox 3.1. https://softwaretools.infineon.com/tools/com.ifx.tb.tool.modustoolbox
2. Once downloaded add the path to access the Scripts folder provided by ModusToolbox
   export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/ModusToolbox/tools_3.1/openocd/scripts
3. Add the OpenOCD executable file's path to west flash/debug.
4. Flash using: west flash --openocd path/to/infineon/openocd/bin/openocd
5. Debug using: west debug --openocd path/to/infineon/openocd/bin/openocd


Programming and Debugging
*************************

The CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT includes an onboard programmer/debugger (KitProg2) with
mass storage programming to provide debugging, flash programming, and serial
communication over USB. There are also PSoC 6 program and debug headers J11
and J12 that can be used with Segger J-Link.
A watchdog timer is enabled by default. To disable it call Cy_WDT_Unlock() and
Cy_WDT_Disable().

Only the CM0+ core starts by default after the MCU reset.  In order to have
CM4 core working FW for both cores should be written into Flash.  CM0+ FW
should starts the CM4 core at one point using
Cy_SysEnableCM4(CM4_START_ADDRESS); call.  CM4_START_ADDRESS is 0x10060000 in
the current configuration. The CM0+/CM4 Flash/SRAM areas are defined in
:zephyr_file:`dts/arm/cypress/psoc6.dtsi`.

Build the project for CM0+

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :board: cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt_m0
   :goals: build

Switch the DevKit into CMSIS-DAP mode using SW3 (LED2 should blink) and flash
the board:

.. code-block:: console

   $<openocd_path>\bin\openocd -c "source [find interface/cmsis-dap.cfg]" \
      -c "transport select swd" -c "source [find target/psoc6.cfg]" \
      -c "if [catch {program {<zephyr_path>\samples\hello_world\build\zephyr\zephyr.elf}} ] \
         { echo {** Program operation failed **} } \
         else { echo {** Program operation completed successfully **} }" \
      -c "reset_config srst_only;reset run;psoc6.dap dpreg 0x04 0x00;shutdown"

Switch the DevKit back using SW3. Open a serial terminal (minicom, putty,
etc.) and connect to the board with the following settings:

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Reset the board and the following message will appear on the corresponding
serial port:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS zephyr-v1.13.0-1877-g9d14874db1 *****
   Hello World! cy8ckit_062_wifi_bt_m0


References
**********

.. _PSoC 62 MCU SoC Website:
	http://www.cypress.com/products/32-bit-arm-cortex-m4-psoc-6

.. _PSoC 62 MCU Datasheet:
	http://www.cypress.com/documentation/datasheets/psoc-6-mcu-psoc-62-datasheet-programmable-system-chip-psoc-preliminary

.. _PSoC 62 MCU Architecture Reference Manual:
	http://www.cypress.com/documentation/technical-reference-manuals/psoc-6-mcu-psoc-62-architecture-technical-reference-manual

.. _PSoC 62 MCU Register Reference Manual:
	http://www.cypress.com/documentation/technical-reference-manuals/psoc-6-mcu-psoc-62-register-technical-reference-manual-trm

.. _CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT Website:
   http://www.cypress.com/documentation/development-kitsboards/psoc-6-wifi-bt-pioneer-kit

.. _CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT User Guide:
   http://www.cypress.com/file/407731/download

.. _CY8CKIT-062-WiFi-BT Schematics:
   http://www.cypress.com/file/420846/download
